# GM CEO Reveals the Truth About AI Cars & the Future of Driving

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EuaVTPB8dxc

**Video ID:** EuaVTPB8dxc

**Upload Date:** None

---

## Transcript

We're hoping for 28, right? >> Yeah. I know. I mean, that's what the team is working for. >> Imagine being able to take your eyes and hands off the wheel, go through your work emails, watch your favorite TV show, maybe grab lunch. Gemini coming out next year, right? Uh, so it's you will be able to talk to your vehicle. It's going to be able to even alert you before something happens so you can take care of it. This is Mary Bar, the CEO of General Motors, one of the most powerful people in the automative world and the woman leading the transformation of how humanity moves. >> This is becoming a robot and eventually you can see a world where it's acting on your behalf fully autonomously. >> AI is changing everything. It's no longer just a car. It's an assistant [music] that might know you better than anyone. So, the real question is, are we ready for it? Mary, thank you so much for doing this. I'm so excited to host you on Silicon Valley Girl. >> I'm really excited to be on Silicon Valley Girl and have a chance to talk to you and tell you what's going on at General Motors. >> Oh, yeah. I'm a proud owner of Cadillac Escalade. Uh it was one of the first with the Super Cruise. I was dying to get it, so we had to go to LA because Bay Area was sold out. Went to LA, got it, and uh we've been driving it since. It's such a good investment, especially when you have technology mixed with quality, right? because you still want to feel good in your car. Today you presented a lot of new updates. Let's imagine it's 2030. I'm in my new Escalade. What is the experience like? >> Well, I think one of the things is it's still going to be very personalized and we think we can uh continue to advance the vehicle. Uh you know, we talked about adding the Google Assistant. uh we'll follow up with a our own assistant that's much more integrated into the vehicle leveraging vehicle data get to know you know the vehicle so that it can even be a more customized experience and then when you think about what we can do from an autonomy perspective we shared that we'll start with highway autonomy where you can literally take your eyes off the road and then we'll continue to expand that into urban urban locations and you know by 2030 I'm I'm kind of done making predictions as it relates to autonomy because I think it is one of the hardest challenges is from a technological perspective, but I think we're going to make advancements like we do today with super cruise. Um, and we'll make those advancements once we have uh eyes off from a highway perspective. And so in 2030, I I think you know people are going to see that their vehicle allows them to lead a much more integrated life that the vehicle makes their life easier, makes them more efficient, gives them back some time. [music] All right, welcome to the new Cadillac Escalade. That's the driving experience of 2028. When you don't have to look out and watch the cars, you don't have to put your hands on the wheel. You just go have your TV screen here, catch up on your emails. Ah, this is what I'm waiting for. And also like cuz I always have my kids in the back, right? I can just pass things. I can talk to them and the car will be driving by itself. Oh my goodness, I love the screen situation. I love that now we have like a full scale TV section here. There's screen for the passenger. The seats are almost identical to what I have now with the sound system here. They have the purse section right here so you can put your bag. It's big. [laughter] The charger. Everything is electric. The steering wheel is again very similar to what I have. This is the technology. I think this is where they track uh your eyes and your hands. I cannot wait till 2028 to start driving this vehicle. I love how the Cadillac is this mix of technology and luxury because we have, you know, very smart vehicles on the market, but they don't feel like luxury. This feels beyond luxury. the blue stitches, like all the details, it feels like it's a car from the future because of the design, but also they maintain the classic uh the classic design, adding all the details. Another fascinating use case that I got from the presentation is that imagine something's wrong with a vehicle and you need to take it to service. Now, ideally in 2028, your vehicle detects the problem by itself cuz it's AI powered. Second, it knows when you need the car. So, in the time when you don't need the car, it will just take itself to the service center, get serviced, come back to your house for you to be ready to move. >> How do you look at competition? Because there are already companies that are doing full autonomy. What do you think about that? Like about this gap? Well, I think if you look at who's doing full autonomy, um, you know, you have it's in the robo taxi arena. Yeah. And so that's a very and generally in a very uh concise OD, even if it's in different cities, it it's um operating uh an operating area. >> Oh, got it. So it's like Yeah. >> Right. And so I think when you uh look at we're talking about something much more broad on highways at speed and then moving into urban. So I think when we look at it from a personal autonomous um it's it's going to we we think we'll be among the leaders in doing that and doing that safely uh understand what the rootexis are doing but it is different than when you get into personal autonomy and you have to integrate back and forth between um I'm driving the vehicle and I'm responsible to the vehicle is taking control. It's actually a much more complex um system to solve. >> Gemini coming out next year, right? Uh so it's you will be able to talk to your vehicle. uh you'll be able to ask like where's the nearest whatever we don't need gas stations but the nearest service etc. What is the most compelling use case that you've seen with Gemini like what makes it stand out? Well, I think when you look at AI and the fact that, you know, you can it's not just um you know, play the latest Taylor Swift song, um which I'm a Swifty, so love, but uh it it it can be much more of, hey, I'm headed here. Can you route me on the way? I'd like to stop and get u you know, a coffee at my favorite coffee shop or hey, I'm kind of hungry. Um I'm not familiar with this area. Uh where's the best place for me to get u a turkey sandwich? You know, kind of thing. I mean, you can just ask it like my or my favorite food is X and it can help integrate that and make sure you're going to the be the best restaurant. So, it's going to take all that information. It's going to be able to do that as we get further along. It's going to be able to even integrate more and know how the the systems in the vehicle are working and alert you before something happens so you can take care of it. So I think it's going to be a journey, you know, from what we have today to what we'll have with Google and then the further integration with General Motors, we'll even be able to pull more information from the vehicle to make it even more personalized. I'm [music] excited about AI in vehicles. So you're going to integrate with Gemini. And I have a question from the user standpoint. Is it the same Gemini I have in my phone? Like I mean, does it have information about me or is it a specific Gemini for the vehicle that is not connected to me as a person? Okay, good question. So, uh today we talked about almost like two timelines actually. One is going to be uh you might already heard this from Google as well which we are closely partnering with. Google Assistant is going to evolve and become Google Gemini in the vehicles. So therefore that's going to be where the journey starts. So that's going to be the first upgrade. The second thing is in addition in parallel we're working on developing our own assistant that is 4GM by GM. Uh we will use of course providers who are already providing large language models. We're not going to be in the business of developing a frontier model or a foundation model. We will build on top of uh technologies but we're not ready yet to disclose what uh back end we're going to be using. But our goal with that GM assistant is to build something that is deeply contextually aware because I think I think we all know this contextual AI is where the magic is going to unlock. Now we can get we can get nerdy. We're talking about Silicon Valley here where we we will design a system where our assistant our agent will be able to talk to other agents cuz the world you're describing is exactly that, right? Cuz you are going to have this graceful handoffs. You're going to say, "Hey, >> I'm in New York. look at the next three flights available. The AI should learn you prefer to fly, let's say, with United. It should talk to the United agent and say, "Hey, here's the three flights that you might want to." So, that's the goal. What we want to create a Uber agent, an Uber assistant, that is the GM assistant that can broker those type of interactions. >> Love it. Let's imagine 2050. >> Okay. Wow. >> What driving looks like with AI. Let's be super futuristic cuz you're building this, right? You probably are thinking about those days. Okay. What is your wildest >> 2050? When is that? So, it's 25 years from now on. So, like we talked about earlier today, the level of autonomy I think is going to continue to increase. I think Mary even alluded to it in her presentation today where you will we will reach a world where the car would be doing things even without you in the car where it could run errands on your behalf where it could take itself to be car washed and serviced and change the tires. So I think 25 years is a long time and I reserve to be wrong and thank god it's such a long time. Well, would we get this earlier? Something you described, it's already >> feels like it's a possibility now. >> Again, it's possible. I think it's now we can actually again get a little bit nerdy around like the diffusion of innovation, right? It's not equally distributed, right? We are experiencing that today. However, maybe the economics are not there yet for it to be mass scale, right? They're in pockets, right? The robo tax experience, those are expensive cars to build with those sensor sets. But in 25 years, one could imagine the sensors get cheaper, the AI models we use get smarter. So therefore, the world where we're seeing the car truly fully autonomously behaving on your behalf, I think will be real in 25 years. >> The actual robot that we're going to have in our household, >> correct? Exactly. I mean, the one of the robots, right? This is a I think Sterling said this way. This is a purpose specific robot that provides you mobility. We are going to have purpose specific robots, right? We are going to have probably humanoids in our house helping with home chores. We will have quoteunquote robots maybe helping with education. And yes, this is a becoming a robot and eventually you can see a world where it's acting on your behalf fully autonomously. >> Wow. Okay. Flying cars, >> why not? >> And when it comes to technology, um, so I asked one of my friends who's also working on like self-driving. And I'm like, when will be the year when I can just put my kids in the car and the car will take them to school? When do you think this is coming? And is it available right now from the technology perspective? He said from technology perspective, we can do it now. It's just a regulation. Well, I think right now we do have a patchwork of regulation. We're hoping for one federal regulation because I think that will unlock autonomous technology. I think a lot of it being a mother myself although my children are adults now um is looking at um you know when is the right time to do that. So I think you know from a technology perspective we'll get there and then it's going to have to be a judgment piece of how old is your child, where are they going, all of that. Um and so you know we're on our way to get there. Uh and you know I think the we'll get to a point I think we need to get to full you know as we start with L4 highway obviously you know you're still in the urban areas going to need to take um responsibility for driving. So I think that'll happen over time. So when we're driving right right now the vehicle is watching us and it's seeing like my eye movements and everything. Is it like surveillance like does it read my conversation like what happens if the government wants to take my data like the privacy? Well, and this is where um you know, we we have a new over a year now a privacy officer that uh is working across the organization helping people understand. We want to make sure we're uh following all the privacy requirements and you know a lot of the information we feel is the customer. So the customer has to give give the company permission even if we're going to use it from an anonymized perspective. So everything we do will be with a focus on privacy and security and then also cyber security. So that we have dedicated people in the company that focus on making sure we understand the laws and that we're following all of them and and you know even more so uh doing what we think consumers would want us to do. >> Mary brought up something that couldn't be more relevant today, privacy. And the truth is AI already knows more about me than I realize. It knows what I buy, what I search for, how I move, sleep, and work. We rarely stop to think where all that information actually goes, or who might have access to it. Can you imagine that in just a few years, even my car will probably know everything about me, what time I leave home, how often I call my mom, cuz I call her almost every day when I'm driving. And with home robots now starting to appear, they'll soon have a window into every detail of family life. As technology and AI keep evolving, I can see that people are becoming much more aware of how their data is used and who they trust with it. Very soon, the companies that handle privacy responsibly will be the ones people choose to stay with. Because trust is no longer just a nice to have. It's becoming the foundation of every relationship between users and brands. According to research from user centrics, 62% of consumers feel they've become the product. 77% don't understand how their data is handled. And 73% will stop buying from brands they don't trust with their data. This isn't theoretical. It's consumer behavior that impacts your bottom line. That's where Cookie Bot CMP comes in. It's an automated consent management solution designed for exactly this problem. It automatically scans your website, identifies every cookie and tracker, classifies them by purpose, and manages user consent at scale. Cookiebot is Google certified and automatically updates when regulations change. It covers CCPA/CPA, e- privacy, and more. If you care about your users and don't want to lose your place in this highly competitive world, consider trying Cookieot by user centrics. Cookiebot easily integrates with popular site builders like WordPress, Shopify, and Wix, helping you stay compliant and build trust with your audience. And just for my viewers, there's an extra bonus. You can get 15% off for six months if you sign up using the special link in the video description. Thanks to User Centrics for sponsoring this video. And now back to our conversation with Mary. >> The next step is taking your eyes off right and that is what we you know we are going to be delivering uh in the 28 time frame uh with uh again with first from a highway perspective. So that's that will happen and then we'll keep advancing that and get to urban etc. So, you know, that's coming in the not too distant future, it's really right around the corner. >> We're hoping for 28, right? >> Yeah. No, I mean, that's what the team is working toward. And, you know, when I look at what we've been able to build with all of the resources we have from a software perspective and then uh what we had from a uh the team that's done super cruise along with the cruise resources, bringing them all together, then they're doing it right now. So, that's what get makes me really excited. >> What we announced today is an eyes off autonomy capability. nothing of that sort exists in the market today. And when you think about that, you're basically asking the driver to take your eyes off, not pay attention at all on the road. Um, that's a very very high bar. And for us to safely maneuver different conditions that we, you know, spoke about here in the demo. We need sensor redundancies uh to be built in so that the car can handle very complex uh scenarios in all weather conditions without requiring human intervention. like human intervention cannot be a backup. That cannot be a safety wall. Uh and we're not going to use it. So we are going to >> So even if something's going on, there won't be a situation where the car just flashes around like take over, take over, take over. So you excluding that? >> So we will have situations where when the uh car is exiting its operational domain. So the product right now will launch with highways only. So we will you'll only be able to use this product when you're on the highway. when you're off the highway uh this product will not be available and so when you're on the highway you can use it but as you are going to uh come to an exit we will ask you to take over the control >> you have three different systems right you have lighter you have cameras and you have a radar can you talk to me about the difference between the three systems >> yeah so um what we wanted to share here is that uh how the different sensors come together to provide uh a 360°ree continuous this uh information to a driving system to uh so that it enables it to make splits or even fraction of a second uh decisions. It can see further, react faster than a human would ever can and can work in all weather conditions. >> When do you think the full autonomy is coming? >> You know, I think we're going to keep approaching that and as Sterling talked about Sterling Anderson who is our chief product officer, we're going to keep working uh and making sure we do that safely. So it'll be you'll see incrementally that we'll keep adding adding from a you know the area in which you can do it to the complexity of the environment. So I I learned I first started making predictions about autonomy back in 2016. So I I as I look now we're going to we're going to put it into the vehicle as soon as it's ready and it can be deployed safely and that's what will be the main concern right now. Safety. Safety is something, you know, General Motors has a rich history of having that relationship of trust with our consumer that they uh they know we put a lot of thought into our systems being safe. And so we want to put that same uh level of uh prioritizing safety that we have done in Super Cruise into as we get to uh you know L4 highway and and then we'll expand from there. >> And super cruise you mentioned 700 million miles, no accidents. >> Correct. Correct. That is fascinating. >> Yeah. Well, it's and again, it's we know vehicles and we've really looked to make sure that that the technology uh is well validated. So, we're very proud of our safety record and we work to continue to get better every day and give more features like trailering and uh you know, integration with Google Maps. So, there's new features and new uh roads being added to to Super Cruise um all the time. >> So, we talked about AI transforming the driving experience. How is it transforming the production? >> Well, I think we're we're leveraging I mean I think it's such an interesting time right now when you look at the power of artificial intelligence and we're focusing on the main areas in the business of how do we use it to improve manufacturing. Uh Sterling Anderson talked about one of the things that General Motors has that is unique is all of this information and data of of how how how things are manufactured. And I think when you look at that and the power of data to to really help advance AI, we're in a unique position to make our um our manufacturing processes more efficient, serve our operators better. When we think about um designing the vehicle, uh you know, looking at the areas that we can that right now people are doing, how do we make it more efficient and and allow our engineers to really focus on optimizing technology? Um you know, safety. uh it allows us to do more validation. There's so much from that perspective. And then from a how we go to market, imagine leveraging artificial intelligence to really understand the customer better and reach that customer in a more focused way so they get the information they want. There's been so much advancement in that space as well. And then lastly, what I would say is also putting the tools um in the hands of our employees. One of the things I've encouraged uh everyone at the company to do is become familiar with it because it's easy to kind of be a little bit wary of it if you don't understand it once you use it. I think it really and I I make sure I'm constantly using it um even in my daily life unrelated to work to just see the power of it because once you use it use it for this and you're like oh I can use it for this. It's um you know, one of the things my daughter does that I think is so interesting. She'll she's going to college to get her master's degree and she'll be like um I'd like a a shopping list with I'm gluten-free with I need it to be healthy. I want it to be this level of calories and I don't want it to have too many um different things that I have to buy. So, give me the recipes for a week. >> Yeah. >> And boom. And she's like, "Mom, it's really good and it really works." >> What's your favorite use case? Just the other day I I've been having some shoulder pain and so I I got the test results and of course I you get it now on the portal before you you know you have anything from back from your doctor. I put it into this time I used she had GPT and it came back and it's like yeah you've got a a tendon that's inflamed and of course it's my mother who um passed away many years ago but she always used to tell me to sit up straight and some of it is for you some of my soreness is because of posture. I'm like okay my mom I've got to listen to you. I've got to sit up straight. >> But I mean, I think I never before I would have waited, you know, to hear from the doctor and I was able to go in and understand what it is and understand what I need to do to to alleviate it. So, I mean, just a couple years ago, you know, you would have had to wait for the doctor. So, and then, you know, there's the easy one of I look in the fridge. What do we have? Okay, give me something interesting to make. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. You know, that's a really good point. Take a picture even more so than saying I have this, this, and this. >> I'll do that. >> Yeah. I do that all the time. What about work processes? What have you optimized with AI for you personally? >> For me, I think it's it's um how do I, you know, write much more quickly uh when I'm writing an email or how do I get information? If I want to learn something about a new technology, uh just asking the question so boom, I get the information, I can read it as opposed to having to send some send it to someone else, say, "Hey, can you give me a a you know, a summary of this?" So, I mean, just so much more information is digestible uh you know, is given back to you in a very digestible format. I'm I'm using it several times a day and and then also um again how I do my work. >> Let's get back to uh factories and workers. If somebody wants to can someone who's inspired by your journey when you started working for GM when you were 18 and now you're the CEO if somebody wants the same journey and they're thinking you know what entry level jobs being replaced with AI and how do I repeat this journey in the current environment what would be your advice? Well, first of all, if you want to be in the auto industry, I mean, I would I would make sure that you get into the core of the business, uh, joining to to work um, as a manufacturing person in our in our company. I I started as an engineer working in a plant, knowing how and and from when I started over 40 years ago to now, there's so much has advanced in the plants, but understanding what it takes to put a car on the road with high quality, to do it efficiently, with an engaged workforce, I think that's so important. And so I still I always encourage people whatever industry you're excited about, make sure you're in the core of it. You're in how we design vehicles, all the software, how we um how we make vehicles, how we go to market. I would in an industry you're excited about, go in and join a company and really immerse yourself in where they are today. you know, so many people who are are graduating from college or, you know, coming in with certificates are they have so much knowledge already from the way technology they they, you know, leveraged it um to to go through their schooling at whatever level they are. You bring all that and you can immediately say, hey, here's how we can make it better. I was talking a couple years to years ago of of um an employee who joined the company and it was in our finance area. uh and he had got a job and he said, "Yeah, I was able to use these tools I used from college and able to take what was usually going to take three days and I could do it in three hours." I mean, I think so I think what somebody who's starting their career, they have to realize, you know, they really have a lot of knowledge in the way they learn to do work that they can bring into the workplace and that's what we're trying to do right now across many functions of for instance in human resources. How do we take some of the things that a human resource professional needs to do that is you know getting the data in the right place and getting that information getting that done more effectively with AI so that person can have more uh more of a high touch with the people that are in the area that he or she is supporting those are things I think we can do that that human connection is going to become more important and the quality of it because the person isn't spending all the time doing some of the more you know routine things that they can really understand that person better, understand the process better, work for higher quality, I think it's really going to advance. >> What are the personal traits that you're looking for rehiring? >> I think you have to have someone who is passionate about what they do. Um I also would say um you know a high quality person, integrity, work hard, >> high quality person. >> Yes. You know, somebody who who you know is willing to come in and work hard and wants to learn and you know, understands that. One of the things I talk about at GM, we're going to do the right thing even when it's hard. And integrity is such an important piece of it, we talk at General Motors, winning with integrity because if you win without it, you really haven't won. And so people who are aligned with with the company's values, but are passionate about the work, willing to work hard and curious that they want to learn because technology is advancing in any industry. it's advancing so quickly that if you don't have a learning mindset and a curiosity to like hm how can I make this better or I want to go learn about that. Um I think that that to me is what's going to separate and empower people to do things and have careers that we can't even imagine right now. >> Is there anything that keeps you up at night in >> well AI? >> Yes. I mean, of course, I mean, I I think it's so important to uh adopt artificial intelligence and all technology responsibly and and do it well, but I think uh as we go forward, companies that say, "Hey, I'm going to wait. I'll sit this lap out. I'll see how it goes." I think you're going to be so far behind. So, to me, it's making sure are we doing the right things and are we uh really engaging our workforce and empowering them as opposed to, you know, them being weary of it. I think that's a big piece that we're doing. I feel good about the strategy we have and we've been adaptable. I mean the world is changing dramatically and in the auto industry from a regulatory perspective, from a supply chain perspective, uh from a consumer perspective, >> what people are expecting from a vehicle now, right? Because everything is smart suddenly. >> It is. So I think I have a healthy paranoia about that to make sure we're on the cutting edge. I send a lot of emails to my team or see them and say, "What are we thinking? What are we thinking about this?" Or, "Have you thought about this? Or are we aware of this?" And nine times out of 10, or I should say 99 times out of 100, like, "Yes, we're on it. We're already doing that." But I'm going to keep asking those questions because I think it's so important and I think General Motors is an iconic company and I want to make sure it's here 100red years from now and the only way we're going to do that is by making sure we leverage and um uh you know embrace technology responsibly. >> When everything's going on, when you're looking at everything happening, what helps you stay grounded and stay focused? >> Oh gosh. >> Any rituals? Um, you know, for me, um, obviously I I work hard. Um, but my family, um, I, you know, I'm I'm blessed. I've been married for 40 years to, um, my husband. We met, right? We met in college and and, you know, and so, uh, just I think what grounds me and what re-energizes me is spending time with my family and and friends. Is there like certain limit that you say like I spend weekends with my family, evenings are family? Do you have something like that? I think you have to be more flexible, but one of the things I try to do on I try to make sure I'm I'm pretty much up to, you know, have everything done as I kind of close the laptop on Friday evening and then I try to not be, you know, glued to my phone or my computer on Saturday just to get a chance to to recharge. And then usually Sunday afternoon I'm starting to prepare for the next week. But I find that time just even, you know, if it's a half a day or a day to take that breath, it it recharges me to to think about things differently and, you know, literally when I get back to something and be like, "Oh, you know what? Um, I'll I'll look at it. I'll see something um, you know, different or I'll look at it from a different perspective that I think allows me to be more effective." And I encourage people to find what recharges them. But I think in today's age um you have to there's things that are happening so quickly. You can't just say oh Friday afternoon to Monday morning I'm never going to look. It's just I don't think it's the world we're living in. >> So you still have to compromise. You have to work. >> But you do I would say on the flip side you do have to make sure you're finding that way that you recharge or you're you know one of the things as a working mom you know people somebody gave me really great advice and said sometimes the most urgent or often the most urgent is not the most important. >> That's 100% true of the time. Right. And so you have to, you know, step back and say, "Am I constantly letting what appears to be the most urgent take me away that I'm never doing what's the most important?" Um because I know you have two young little girls. Is it Lily and Emily? >> Oh, wow. Yes. >> Yes. And um Precious is they're they're little, right? >> Yeah. We just got a puppy for them. So >> Oh my gosh. What kind of puppy did you get? >> A toy poodle. >> Oh my gosh. We have a dog, Hunter, and he's um he's I think such an important part of the family as well. But I mean, I think your your children grow up quickly and uh you don't get a doover. So, I also as a as a working mom as um you know, there's times in my career where I did what some people would say were crazy things to make sure I was at that soccer game or at that hockey game and then was still able to get my work done. So, um I look back and uh I'm glad I made those investments and trade-offs. >> That's great. And what what about your relationship with your husband? 40 years. That's a lot. and I need tips especially when you know you have this job and you're traveling all the time. What's what's the best tip that you can give for women who are trying to build their career but also be a good wife? >> Well, you know, I'm I'm really fortunate that my husband and I we kind of build our careers together and he's a he's an engineer with an MBA and uh worked in consulting much much of his career and so he understands the business really well and uh you know he can be a great sounding board. Um he's also a great supporter. So I'm very fortunate to have a husband who um you know I I feel like it's a partnership and I'm really proud of everything he's accomplished. He's proud of me and um but we also he we can give each other good good quality feedback and sometimes we need it. >> Support system. That's awesome. >> Yes. >> I know it's hard to choose your favorites but what's your favorite GM car? >> Yeah, that is really hard for me because I uh I had the opportunity to run global product development. And so I felt like every vehicle in the portfolio played such a special role. Uh I would say though uh you right now I love driving a Hummer EV. >> Oh my god, that car. >> I love driving that. Well, it's got four-wheel steer so it's so maneuverable and I feel like when I'm driving a Hummer EV, I get some respect. You know, people are like >> I definitely saw those looks when you gave me the car for like a week to drive around. People still compel >> a girl or Yeah. >> Yeah. [laughter] definitely got those looks. That's awesome. >> But I'm also a big uh fan of Corvettes. Uh so, you know, I love the styling, the speed, and the heritage. And one of the things that makes Corvette so special is it, you know, the it's true American. It's affordable. It's a Chevrolet. But, you know, people come to me now and they'll say like, "Oh my gosh, Mary, this vehicle is as good as a vehicle that is three times as expensive." Like, you know, really General Motors has cracked the code on this type of performance. So, um, that's that's always rewarding. >> Yeah. And I have a weird question, but you're the person to ask it. >> Okay. >> Flying cars. >> Um, you know, there's some physics involved in that. Um, you know, from like, you know, there's companies working on vertical takeoff, uh, type of vehicles. Um, you know, I would never say never because I think we're innovating and and new technologies are coming every day. But, uh, I think right now I'm going to stay on the road. >> Yeah. just is it because the of the technology or just what I'm thinking like do I want to drive and then have a couple more layers of cars above me that from the safety standpoint that's weird if somebody crashes then it's >> right well I think about that today with all that's happening with drones uh and so you know and how they're how you know the the government you know FAA is managing airspace and about what levels so like I said I don't I I never say never because I think we'll continue to advance I grew up watching the Jetsons So, um, who knows what we'll see in the future, but I think there are there's there's challenges like you're talking from, you know, how do who gets what space and I think there's some technology challenges, but I think in the future probably um, you know, people will solve those challenges. >> Thank you so much, Mary. It was such a great conversation. >> Thank you. And thanks u for the time you've invested in spending in our vehicles. I'm glad that you love your Escalade. >> The best time. I love my Escalade. I enjoyed the Vistic, the Hummer, uh, and Buick cuz >> Yes, >> the Super Cruise. I'm like, the Buick can now go by itself. I didn't expect that. >> Yes, I, you know, Buick has been growing from a share perspective. And, uh, I'm really proud of because it really stands for premium luxury for someone who maybe doesn't want what Cadillac stands for of true luxury. And I'm so proud of that. I'm proud of that brand and how the port product portfolio is really continuing to gain share uh and and conquest customers for us which is which is wonderful. >> When when we got the Buick, my daughter entered it and she was like, "Is that a Maybach?" >> Oh my god. I I like her. >> Yeah. And I saw her review of the Vistic. It was precious. Thank [laughter] you so much. >> She loves it. Thanks so much. >> Good. Well, thanks so much. Thank you.