# Rishi Sunak & Akshata Murty: Power, Identity & Why Patience Beats Ambition | Nikhil | People by WTF

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=spdUv7OFOu4

**Video ID:** spdUv7OFOu4

**Upload Date:** None

---

## Transcript

[music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] >> I'm not going to talk to Akshata like she's Rishi's wife [music] or Narayan Murthy's daughter. Uh, forget Rishi and your dad. Where does Akshata's validation come from? From genuinely having impact. [music] >> How was the journey, Rishi, from going from being a person who was at Goldman Sachs to becoming the Prime Minister of UK? >> [music] >> I know it's a big question. >> It's a big question. >> Yeah. A lot more young people need to participate in politics. For somebody sitting on the outside, >> [music] >> a young guy who wants to be in politics, how hard is it? Is it a [music] Is it that one person can actually change stuff? Tell me when we start, huh? You started? Sure? Okay. Sorry, we I wouldn't mind it. Is it possible to get fresh lime soda? >> Yeah, of course. >> If If that's If that's doable, I'll have sweet. If that's a go. Do you want salt in it as well? I actually just sweet would be good. So, I've been in Alibaug the last few days. I just got back. Just now. Which is Which is >> Pardon my geography. Which is a 30-minute boat ride from Bombay. Okay. Yeah. And that's like a like a hill station? It's much like Bombay, but no people. >> [laughter] >> So, like the Hamptons? It's not prettier than Bombay. It's just emptier than Bombay. So, you go there for a little bit of No, we have this thing we are running called Foundry, which is like a residential college for entrepreneurship, a 3-month course. >> Okay. So, about 20 to 30 people get selected >> Yeah, so each cohort is 20 to 30. >> Yeah. Like the Y Combinator, I think. Yeah, very much. They get a half a million dollars, they get to build the business while they live there in one house for 3 months. So, I was with the current batch. It's a good place to do it near Bombay cuz it's empty and nobody like And do Did you set it up? Yeah. >> Yeah. How many batches have you Oh, this is the first batch. First batch. >> That's super exciting. Very exciting. >> anything else like that in India? Y Combinator and these guys are not here, right? >> Yeah. And this one is very consumer focused. So, we're building 20 consumer brands. So, one will be a candy company, one is a toothpaste company, >> [laughter] >> We started Cat Adventures doing that kind of thing, yeah. So, that you One is a candy company? Yeah, one is a toothpaste company, one just makes jeans, one makes chocolates of a certain kind. Very interesting. And there's normally VCs don't necessarily rush into consumer companies, right? So, it's nice to have a source of not just capital, but deep passion and expertise for this space. >> Yeah. And in India, when you see the GDP number growing at 6 to 7%, a really large component of that is consumer, which is growing at 12, 13%. So, the Indian Indian consumer is saving less, especially the younger generation, and they're spending more. Also, I would say beginning to borrow more to spend more. Which was not the case when you and I grew up. >> No. Not when I grew up. I can [laughter] say we grew up at the same time. We are somewhat contemporaries, but I'll let you I'll let you run away with the younger parts. >> Probably in the same area as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Like maybe like 5 minutes away from each other. If you selected the people but they all apply and you just go through and how many applications did you get? >> an AI quiz, which is about 45 minutes. >> Yeah. Uh, a few thousand people cleared it, and then we had a boot camp for the last 4 days, where we went down from 75 people to 25 people, which will be the first cohort. This is so fun. >> do you then So, you say there's a there's a lady with a business plan. Do you then find a team Do they then meet potential team members in this cohort or do they Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, many of them team up and become co-founders. So, the ideas are already there of what could be built, and we help to a large extent in manufacturing, distribution, marketing, content, packaging, all of that. Uh, so the idea is to really expedite the time to market and do it in the 3 months while they all live in one house. Sounds great. What's it called? It's called Foundry. Foundry. We'd love to have you guys. Oh, we'd love to I mean I would I would love it. If you get her involved, Nikhil, I won't be able to get her back home. >> [laughter] >> I mean, that's You've just described something that is probably her dream. It's something that I've been thinking about myself. Kiran's going to be there for a few days. Oh, so you bring in people to kind Like take classes. And And have you funded it If you don't mind me asking, you funded it yourself? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fully. And then you you have a Is it a standard term sheet that Yeah, it's a fairly standard term sheet. All 20 of them get about half a million dollars beginning, and then at the end of 3 months, they need more money, then we open it up for whoever wants to buy it. Yeah, at that point, yeah. And you Have you Do you you have a right, but presumably an obligation to follow on if you if you want. I think we both have so many questions cuz it's so exciting. >> That sounds great. So, presumably you're investing like angel, right? >> Yeah. And then So, the next step of funding, aside from you, in the consumer space in India, do you find there are sufficient folks who can kind of put that kind of money in? In In India, yes, because of the rate of growth in consumption, which is the opposite of the Western world. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Like you would find it just as easy to get money for consumer as you would for tech in India. Amazing. Yeah. This sounds great. >> Yeah. Sounds really great. Yeah, it should be fun. And you can also film them like like that. Yeah, we are making it a show. Like seven episodes. What's the average age? 28. Oh, actually that's actually a bit older than I would have thought. It's funny, we realized that we have some who are really young, like 18 and 19, but we ended up picking a lot of people who were in their late 30s as well. Okay. Okay. Just worked out that way. There was no plan going in. >> Yeah, no, you just saw who Yeah. And we're making a TV show because Yes, that's my thing. >> We want to make them heroes before the product hits the market, so people buy the product. >> And Nikhil, you and I know, growing up, who were the heroes of our time, right? You had incredible cricket folks. You had your Your dad and Jay Nagar. >> [laughter] >> And my dad. But But you know, literally, I think one of the reasons my dad stood out was because he was a man with an idea and a vision and a business plan, really. And so, you're saying, let's take that and make heroes out of these men and women. How cool is that? Like let's make business cool. I mean, business is cool now. >> Yeah. You know, I interviewed your dad a few years ago. >> Did you? Yeah. Oh, we did I didn't >> [laughter] >> I didn't see that. It was not on camera. IT WAS >> [laughter] >> IT WAS NOT ON CAMERA. IT WAS LIKE A CONVERSATION we were having for a Karnataka government thing. Okay. Yeah. I see your mom every time Kiran has a Correct. She's part of a good event or a bad event. She's part of the posse. Yeah. The last time I met your mom, we were in a Where were we? No, this was unfortunately when Kiran's husband had passed away. And we were at the >> [clears throat] >> We were at the crematorium. And there was a poster of a god on the ceiling. So, I was looking at it, and she came up to me, and she's like, Nikhil, do you know what that is? It was the god who is in charge of of death. Yama. Yamaraj. No, he's he's a god of crematoriums, who is in charge of Very specific. Very specific. So, she sat me down and told me the story for like 10 minutes. This is his job. You know, in Haridwar, where there are many fires at the same time? He's the guy in charge of keeping the place running and moving one soul from here to there. Very interesting story. That is classic classic your mom. >> [laughter] >> Not at the kind of macro level of gods. It's But but she she Some very >> she she is so passionate about storytelling. Yeah. And then she deploys that skill whether she's writing for kids, whether she's now you know she's a member of parliament by the Rajya Sabha, whether she I think even when she was an engineer, she she somehow was able to come put things together to to have a narrative that appeal to people. So I think really interesting. I mean you've seen that all the time. >> it's a great gift in life. I think I I look at it and I marvel. But her ability to tell a story about anything in any context is a superpower because it's by far and away the most powerful way to communicate. And she somehow has in her head just stories for everything. For every age group, every topic, there'll be something. >> And in politics I feel like you've realized how important it is. >> Yeah, I think in in but even in I think even in business in every like in everything. It's just if you can communicate through storytelling, it's it's a Did you have to learn to story tell? I yeah, I I it's something I've learned because of you and your mom. Mhm. But it it doesn't come as naturally to me. I I approach things a bit more practically, a bit more analytically. And but it which is fine, but it's not as effective for communicating certainly politically, but I think in general. But then I I'll see you are more like your mom, right? Her instinctive way to explain something is with a story. And I see how she does it with the kids. It's just how you see the world. >> But your mom isn't Yeah, but it's she >> You see the world in narratives. You you are people-centric. You you put ideas together. And naturally there's a kind of beginning, middle, and end to it. But you don't consciously think about it, obviously. I agree with her. For a guy who looks like me, brown-skinned, to become the prime minister of England, you have to be good at storytelling. Yeah, that's nice of you to say. That's nice of you to say. I At your age. At my age. Look at Look in I think obviously you have to be able to communicate reasonably well in politics. I think different times require different types of communication. Then the pandemic struck. And so that was my introduction to the country. So I was doing A I was doing something that I was very comfortable in which was economic policy. But that time I think was atypical, because and I can't I don't know what it was like here, but in in the UK and same similar in the US and other places, everybody just watched the government press conference every evening. And because people couldn't leave their homes as my everyone was at home and everyone was worried. And so people in a way that they haven't done for decades, most of the country just sat down at 5:00 or 6:00 or whatever time I think it was 5:00 we did these things. And and and then there would be a different minister every day on the TV talking to the country. And that was my introduction to the country and it suited me cuz it didn't you didn't need to be a brilliant storyteller for what people wanted. What they wanted was A clear communicator. Yeah, they wanted someone who could explain things clearly, provide reassurance, and then do these things that would help them and it and explain, you know, what we were doing economically, how it was going to benefit them and with a hopefully reassuring tone. And you had this you had a captive audience who were hungry for that information. And so it probably suited my style. And then actually that you know once politics gets back to normal and no one is tuning in for half an hour with a slightly more sympathetic bias as they're listening to you, that's when actually if you were able to communicate with storytelling, it would have served me better, actually. I watched a lot of your interviews. There aren't many. I think you guys have done very few interviews. You mean together or Together there are one or two I think. The Stanford one. Yes, we've done the Stanford speech. >> Yeah, one about maths. And yes. Yeah, that's a newer thing for us to do together is this charity. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well we and so you've seen a few of them. >> But I've never seen you speak about life truly and not in a manner that you are doing today. Yeah. I hear about Akshata's parents a lot, never about yours. Mhm. They're awesome. Yeah. In fact, I went through a period where I said, "Rishi, I'm I'm not sure if I want to marry you or not, but then I don't want to lose your parents." >> [laughter] >> The best way is to is to is to uh They they and they certainly spend more time. My parents spend more time talking to you than they do to me. So but they're genuinely amazing. I'll I'll give my two cents cuz I'm I obviously didn't grow up with with them. And you were saying, you know, Rishi for someone who looks like me became PM. I would say so much of that is down to them. Because they raised all three of you, by the way, with incredible values. And you should talk about what those values are, but incredible values. And they are the living embodiment of those values. And um and so I I um I feel very lucky that my children on the one hand, of course, I'm so proud of my parents and everything that they stand for, not achieved, but what they stand for, that killed. That's really important. But they have another set of grandparents. And I got to know a lot more about your parents kind of journey when I think there was that book that came out on you by Michael Ashcroft. I can't remember the name. When you were chancellor. Um and so I was Rishi didn't have time, so I was doing some of the digging into their journeys. And it's incredible. Where are they now? What do they do? >> They they still live in Southampton where I was born. They are retired. Um they're spending time with their Well, they keep busy, but they spend time with their grandkids when they can. They just um they just our our two girls actually were in uh in Bangalore this week with Akshata's mom and dad for half term. And then they just got back. But my parents came to surprise them at the airport, so they've been having a nice time the four of them over the weekend. No, so they still live in the town where I was born and and grew up. My uh dad was a GP, family doctor. My mom was a pharmacist. And I you know, I've I've spoken about this and you know, they were very much my inspiration for wanting to go into politics. You might think that's a bit odd given that >> [laughter] >> uh they're medical. But I I worked for them. And I worked mainly for my mom in the shop in the back. And so I'd be doing making up all the medicines and Doing the accounts >> I I do all the accounts as well and the bookkeeping and that got me into business side of things. But and then I would deliver the medicines. So I'd be on my bike and then in the evenings you'd go around and then I'd drop them off for the patients that couldn't come in and pick them up. And then later I you know, I learned to drive, I did it that way. But the I was really struck because they've been doing the same thing in the same place 30 years and the surgery and the pharmacy were nearby each other, so they had lots of similar patients overlapping. And I would I was struck because you'd go to the door and you'd hand the thing and they'd say, "Oh, are you Mrs. Sunak's son? Or you Dr. Sunak's son?" I'd say, "Yes." And then they would proceed to tell me some lovely story about my mom and dad. They'd say, "Oh, and it would invariably be something that either or both of them had done to them or their parents or their grandparents or their kids. And I you just got this repeatedly and the same the same thing would happen if we were out of the weekend or shopping. And uh and and I and and I came to realize that it was possible for just one person or two people as individuals to have this quite strong impact in their community. In a way that you could touch so many people's lives and make a difference to them. And I thought that was inspiring. And so that was my motivation for becoming a politician because in the UK our districts, our constituencies are small. And it's it's very retail. Right? So you are nice you know, even when you're prime minister, you're still doing that. You're you're conducting They're still called They're called surgeries. You know, you have a surgery as an MP, people come and see you with their problems, you help them. And and you're out in you embedded in your local community. And I get a lot of fulfillment from that. And actually one of the things having left Downing Street that I get to do more of is that aspect of the job having stayed as an MP. >> That's in North Yorkshire. That's where our home is in. So I Googled it. It looks really pretty. >> It's very pretty. >> It's very green. It's very green. [laughter] You you'd like it. Yeah, it's And Kieran also sadly John passed away, but that was on their list cuz it's depending on which train you take, it's on the way up to Scotland. Yeah. It's um yeah, it's a fiercely independent people in Yorkshire. And it's uh but it's stunning rural England. Um I represent more sheep than people. Um so I've become very familiar with all things farming related. And there's two national parks and and it's beautiful. Um but yeah, so that's that's the thing I got from them was you know just through working with them and on seeing how they made a difference. That was my inspiration cuz obviously I disappointed them by not becoming a doctor. But I think you did fine. I did it's okay. [laughter] It's okay. It worked out okay. It worked out okay. >> [laughter] >> But I would But it was it was a definite adjustment for them. Yeah. Yeah, well cuz I I was studying economics and and philosophy and they didn't And they're like they understand science. Yeah, we kind of but we understand law. They just Yeah, cuz they they thought I might become a lawyer so they understood that. You know those days they were kind of like what you would what degree what subject you're studying what degree does that mean what job does that mean, right? It was and I had to explain it's okay it's a good degree. It's good A levels. I'll be able to get a job and it would be fine. But that the other thing with them and that's actually in spite of the superficial differences between our families the thing that united them was you know for my parents it was all about education. Right. So for them you know they worked and they worked and they worked and they did extra jobs and everything else and they worked seven days a week and all of that was so that we could go to great schools. Cuz that their view was that they just threw everything into that sacrificed everything for that. >> a very Indian thing, no? It's a it's a very it's a very Indian thing. It's a very Indian thing. I mean you know my parents did exactly that, right? And and I think the Indian community as a whole we value education. >> Yeah. As the passport is a way for a better life. Right? But it was I was really lucky cuz I went to great great schools as a result of that. And we helped along the way as did my brother and sister. But it was um you know that was kind of drilled into us that this is important. Do you think it still works though? If you were to argue that the Indian education system which is very marks dependent and rank dependent is teaching us to be conformist in a world that is no longer rewarding conformity? So first of all Come on you got you got I can imagine we'll have I so I studied in India till I was 18 then I and then I the truth is Nikhil at 16 you know both my parents are engineers even in '96 I knew at 16 I knew that they were they were special and amazing and and and I thought a lot of it was down to them being engineers, right? Um that's far from the point but but I knew I didn't want to be an engineer and so then well what are my options? I didn't want to be a doctor. And so I knew I wanted to read and write and storytell and I loved history but I also loved um the social sciences economics and so I ended up going to the US and I have a liberal arts degree but but I think the Indian education system from when I know it it it it it is a numbers game and it it you know because the it it puts you on a path where you you end up if you know what you're doing it's great but if you don't know what you want to do I'm not so sure that works but I think it's changing and now with things like technology I think we're able to be more open-minded about what that education system should be. But Nikhil to your point it's it's not just India because of AI every country is having to think about its education system and reimagine it for this world what what is worth studying what are the right skills to teach young people and we think about it we have two daughters who are about to grow up into this world and I think the one thing we know is it's it's actually very hard to say with certainty. And I you know I'm lucky to spend time with the people developing this technology people thinking about it. I I think there's just an incredible amount of uncertainty about exactly how this is all going to work out. Would you send your daughters to an engineering college today? I think you know would I send them to an engineer Yeah, I mean look I they're so young. If if that's what they were passionate about and look I'm not as familiar with Indian education Right. system versus UK or US And that's the point I was trying to make Nikhil like I thought if you were a fairly good student you went you have to be a a doctor or an engineer a doctor or an engineer and I didn't want to be either of those, right? But we're we're not quite at the there's they're not old enough yet where I'm sitting there going if they were engineers well should they do more electrical engineering cuz hardware is more important than you know computer science or something. I you know I'm not at that level with them and no no neither of us are. But I think what one thing some things that are starting to become clearer about this AI world is you can almost break down I think about it you can break down most jobs into a set of tasks, right? Like all of our jobs are a set of tasks and we've talked about this, right? And and there's there's bits that AI is clearly going to be very good at. And then there's bits that it probably won't be. And you just need to make sure that your education is not so narrow that it gives you the breadth these what I these horizontal skills and it's things like critical thinking. It's it's kind of knowing what question to ask the model. The model will always have more knowledge than you but you you need to know how to get the best out of it and that comes from critical thinking reasoning judgment being able to evaluate the answer that comes back and then go back. I that is a set of skill I mean liberal arts education in in the US is one that focuses on that type of horizontal thinking. So I would that to me I think is is as our kids are thinking whether it's engineering or economics or whatever having some breadth >> that allows you to do that cuz just developing not deep knowledge about one thing which you do need in life. You need to I'm a big believer you need to become a subject expert and go deep. But from a skills capability you just need to have that breadth and I think the other thing is and actually we this is when we were at Stanford together we had this remember I I I I I probably made the mis in in what in hindsight made a mistake, right? And you told me this at the time. Yeah. About you know when we were doing all the class selection. >> Yes. Right? And I and I at that age you're in your 20s I was drawn more to the harder things that I I enjoyed and I was going investing extra finance that type of thing, right? And I liked those classes and I thought they were going to be very relevant to me. And you were right, right? And you were pushing me and you did more of Well I'm all of the things are interpersonal dynamics organizational behavior understanding humans and and behavior and understanding people. >> skills and people centric focus essentially. So so I think Stanford's great because they don't allow you to major as such like you don't do a finance MBA or a marketing. Um and so you invariably have to take a broad mix but I think we came because of our relationship we were able to get each other to try the other thing, right? Um And if I look back I mean you you were right on that and the thing is you at that age I think you probably undervalue how important those things are and then the thing is in if you want to end up in life in a leadership position then those things are more valuable, right? Like actually you will always be able to learn how to do the finance and the accounting and it's way to do it and actually the AI will be able to do it for you. But you know figuring you know what why something didn't work is is because of the is it the people aspect of it is how you set up your the team. Why is that person not motivated, right? >> approach to risk? It won't be because of like someone didn't get the DCF right, right? Like or whatever it is. And and so the same Yeah, and that's why with our kid as again when they're thinking about all those things it's it's where do you whether it's at undergrad grad or in the in life where do you pick up that set of skills? And actually education institutions are the right place to do it. And I remember you made this point to me because I you know I wasn't I was British and reserved and and you were more comfortable being Or more mistaken. Yeah, but you were more comfortable being emotionally vulnerable with other people and and that is the place to do it. Cuz if you're trying to understand well how do you give feedback which is a critical if you're trying to build a team run a team in any context like being able to give feedback and manage people is so critical. And and actually trying to figure that out in a low risk environment trusted environment at say business school is is much better than trying to figure it out on the job you know when you're 40 and running a company. Well that's what you're doing in a way, right? You're saying guys and gals come together and build something you're passionate about but do that in this intense way and frankly it is more low risk than if they had to go out in the real world and do it themselves. Um because I think everything comes down to people in the end, right? Um so Yeah, so understanding people at a at a in a better way which which again is so those are the I think what I'd say to you know kids is the engineer this but it's these other things I'd want to make sure one way or another from school from college from whatever else they're building those skill sets because I think those whatever happens with AI those will be more and more valuable over time. to um Rishi I'm so intrigued and and frankly more convinced uh than ever that in the world of AI, let's figure out let's lean into being more human. And what does it mean to be more human? We can have a conversation around that. Um But but I think to me those are qualities are compassion. >> not less important. compassion and intuition and things like that. Now you can tell me whether AI can learn all of that. Maybe in time AGI etc. But let's lean into those human skills. Um and those are not And I think schools are changing schools because I now have been uh in one shape or form I I have been a part of the Indian education system, the US education system and the British education system. Through the kids, yeah. Through the kids. And um in all of these places I see it is changing. Like it was not it's not like when I was growing up, right? Um But I mean it's >> But is it changing fast enough? That's the question. >> that is the key, right? And it's And I think because probably cuz you same with you like we're closer to the technology development. Like so we see what's happening there. And the government always moves slower than that even at the best of times. And changing whole systems like an education system takes time. But it might my general And I was saying this uh you know last week at the AI summit, right? Like you what political leaders can't afford to do is treat AI like tomorrow's problem. It is an action this day issue. And and and there probably is not much I mean you don't I don't think you see a huge amount of debate and discussion about changing the education system. Um So then the way you're saying being a generalist is better than being an expert? Yeah, I mean [laughter] So interesting cuz I would think that you would say no you you need to build deep skills in a couple of things. >> say I I think this is yeah. >> [laughter] >> Well, we might not say the same thing. I don't know. I think >> And I would use a different word for generalist. I would say breadth. I think that I think the set of what they're horizontal skills. You need those which are not domain-specific, right? The critical reasoning, thinking, judgment, all those human-centric skills that we just talked about. Empathy, feedback, dispute regulate. Um regulation, yeah, exactly. Dispute negotiation. All those human-centric skills. And a set of cognitive but horizontal cognitive skills like critical reasoning. I I said that's where you need what I call horizontal skills which aren't domain-specific. But I am I don't think it's old-fashioned, but I still think you if you want to do something well, you have to have deep knowledge >> master it. And and and you know you you you you want to do something well. You stand up you need to commit time and effort to to being someone who who is stands out on it. Now look that is easier now. Well, sorry. The What's easier now is for many more people to reach a high knowledge level because of AI, right? So it's harder to stand out for that. But you can't not have that. That's my view. Now that might be a bit of an old-fashioned view, but I tend to think if you're talking to someone who's pitching you for one of your companies, right? And then there's foundry and they'd say okay they've got an idea for a confectionery business. If if they don't know the confectionery market in India inside out I think it would be I mean I don't know. I mean I would find that odd. But I would expect them to know more about the confectionery market than anyone else that I speak to. My thing is you only build deep knowledge in something I think if you're passionate about it. And so when I think of that in the context of entrepreneurship, take the confectionery business. This person probably for a number of reasons deeply cares about that space. And that's when innovation happens I think, right? So deep knowledge combined with passion combined with this breadth of skills that we've talked about is is is I think an incredibly interesting Like but to your point and I this is on college. Right? So if you if if one of our kids was doing a degree or they're choosing a degree and whatever it is engineering, English, economics. If all they did for the three four years was just study that subject without building those broad capabilities then that would be I think a problem, right? They would not be set up to succeed in in this world. Now you can build those capabilities through the subject. You can do it as a standalone class. But if if all you did is just study the pure subject and you're the expert on this industrial economics over here and that macroeconomics over there and you know Dario talking about Cournot equilibrium took me back to my industrial economics classes. Um but it's like that that is not sufficient. Like that is absolutely not sufficient. If you haven't left at the same time with that I think that comes back to what makes you us more human. I mean you guys like this at home? Are we >> We We What what is like this mean? [laughter] I don't know. What is the this? Again again because we're on camera. What's the this? >> [laughter] >> Having interesting conversations? Having interesting conversations you mean? You finish each other's lines off. Oh. I think we are. I really do. >> But underneath you don't agree. Not always. >> we we've Not always. Oh, yeah. Good good good way to put it. So I think and our destination is always the same. Which is? Well, so so Depends on the situation. >> we end up coming arriving at the same decision say. For the most part. >> most part for the most part. Or at least in all the big stuff, no? Yeah. Yeah. But I think our journeys We don't start Yeah, and we don't start from we don't often start I think we we probably rarely start from the same place. Oh, I was just going to say our approaches are quite different. Yeah. Exactly. >> Right? So for example if there's something to do with with our children, we'll kind of know what how we we know in fact what the answer is. We know what we're solving for. >> What we're solving for. That's right. But then I will do it the way you will come at it and the way I will come at it. Yeah, exactly. Approach. Will be yeah, approach our starting point will be different. How is it different? You go and then I'll go. Uh well I I will probably come at it from a more analytical, more practical process-oriented, structured way. >> Even in this interview, he's giving me the evil eye when I'm like [laughter] a bit all over the place and he's like no that wasn't the question. I didn't catch it. I [laughter] know the evil eye. CAN YOU SHOW US? THE SUBTLE EVIL EYE. >> [laughter] >> I DIDN'T THINK I was doing that. Only my And then you you will come with it >> come at it with heart Mhm. with passion like quite risk-taking. And more intuitive. And more yeah, heart intuitive. Yeah. And less structured. And much less structured. And less practical. Yeah, and I will be so although we're solving for the same thing, you know, what's the best for our kid or what should we do in X or whatever it is. I mean let's talk about something, right? Like going into politics. Rishi you didn't grow up thinking you would want to go into politics. But when he first talked to me about it, I'm like great we you know you can make a real impact and solve all these challenges and Rishi just has a more structured approach to that. Um and I thought that was really But we on all those things so we'll say anyway we talk about. So we talk what your point is. So we talk a lot. And then the you know then it will probably at some point you know, we're better at now. What are you saying interrupt? [laughter] THE HAND GESTURES. NO, IT MIGHT it might do a bit of that, right? If it's particularly big thing and we've come at it differently, then there'll be a bit of that go away. Then we'll come back at it and and and and on as you say on all on all the big things we >> the same And we end up being very happy I think having been through the process. And we have enough trust now I mean you know how long we've been married like 15 16 whatever years. Um We have enough trust that the process is even if it's a bit fraught during, we trust the process. We trust the process and we trust each other. >> Yeah. No, no. There's that. So I think it's We know that the other person genuinely believes in the same things. Which are? So so to me I when I say that I think values, right? And I think those values we share so many which are around integ- having great deal of integrity working hard, being curious about the world around you um and having compassion I think. And respecting everybody. great respect and and compassion, yeah. Where did the values come from? I think from our parents. >> And that and that was the bit that were as a superficial differences. But I remember remember the when they met that uh Were at your parents' home or you think that yeah yeah that they where you so our parents first met which I was I was dressed about because I was nervous but it was fine she left me to deal with it [laughter] and it was and it was a stressful because they were very I mean she knew both dads I knew both dads but they when they met and they came her parents came with her uncle to my to my parents house in Southampton and and I was there my brother was there And it it I mean it was genuinely stressful because they they were so different on the on the surface but it ended up being um it ended up being really positive because and that was the thing that your parents had had said to me they said we were we were apprehensive cuz we just didn't know whether they would have the same values to us cuz obviously that They're different different but actually how what the things that life the things that they value the things that are important to them how they've raised you being in your house Are values more nurture than nature? You were not born with them? Are values more nurture than nature? Yeah. I mean yeah I think they are I mean I say that um I think they are um Yeah I think so I was talking to my therapist I was speaking with my therapist recently I'm I'm going to is that okay I assuming this is display so good [laughter] cuz I'm going to stick in right This is so ridiculous sitting there and I didn't want to polite and [laughter] whatnot so He does this in every anytime there is anything anything we've done together oh that's it we had this we had a great meeting with with another international leader and his spouse and they had catered afternoon tea which was very nice and you know we were all rightly you know you meet them for the first time you're trying to make sense of each other making sure that they're comfortable but there are all these cakes and then halfway through it Rishi is like well I'm going to start on the cakes and it actually was great because no one else was touching any of the food it was a genuine kind of we're looking for an icebreaker and Rishi just went straight in for the food so um How was the journey Rishi from going from being a person who is at Goldman Sachs to becoming the prime minister of UK? I know it's a big question >> It's a big question yeah um Well I think the the first thing to say it was the journey that I had imagined even if it happened far faster than I would have imagined because I I'm one of these people who thinks if if you want to go into politics you are far better off having done something first that's my view and I think that because a a you bring a set of skills and experience about something else into the political arena which is just a good thing >> [snorts] >> and you have that knowledge which you can contribute but also from a understanding of the real world yeah yeah with this I think what actually you're saying what I think I'm about to say which is no no no I think it's the same thing No which is it's a slightly different mindset to how you approach things cuz if you spent your entire life in politics you tend to see everything with a political lens you you see the politics in every situation or every problem whereas if you done something else first and you've just had a normal experience in doing business teaching medicine whatever it is armed forces and you come into politics you don't see the life through a political prism and I think that is better so for those reasons I think doing something else first is is the right way to do it certainly that's what I wanted to do so in that sense the the career path was one that I had broadly thought about um obviously it happened happened a lot a lot quicker and I think the other thing which was important to me which we talked about a lot at Stanford was I I financial independence and financial security was important to me as a precondition to going into politics afford that Sorry Politics gives you financial security as well right? I I do I mean why why do you say that? Aren't British politicians paid well? They are paid well by average wage standards so you know there's a body that sets politicians wages relative to a set of professional classes so in the if you look at what the average person in the UK earns politicians are are paid considerably more than more than that but for the financial security that I wanted right everyone has their own view Yeah I so from so there was a degree of financial security that I wanted which was not just to be able to live my life but to make sure my family were okay that our kids would be able to have flexibility that the person that I met would be able to have flexibility I'm actually but so I I kind of came into it wanting you know wanting to be able to give my kids my family the choice actually to to not have to maybe do what I did I mean I was lucky I liked something I was passionate about something to your point I happen to be passionate about something which is also well rewarded financially but it was very important to me to have that financial independence bringing this other set of experience and skills into politics and government was important so you know in that sense the the the journey happened yeah as I would have wanted it to I think what was different about it was the speed Right at the speed in which it happened which if I if I look back and I kind of think you know what do I think differently about the world now than I used to at the start of that journey you know I used to think I I used to think speed was Yeah you know I I used to think speed was the most important thing and I've come to appreciate that patience is almost a bigger competitive advantage I I I think when you're that age Nikhil it I'm sure I'm sure you'll resonate with that >> [laughter] >> No now I would say you're All right but I think when you're when you're in your 20s and you're I think you're you're constantly thinking about I've got to get to this point and this point the next thing and you know there's a list you know 30 under 30 young rising stars 40 under 40 list and and you are focused on getting to the next thing and if I don't do this by this point then the the window is gone and I I was very much like that I was not going to be successful um and I think that given and this might be a strange thing for someone who's had my career path to say right you end up being prime youngest prime minister in 200 years and in one sense that's incredible but in another sense as I say patience is its own competitive advantage because you know there is sometimes when actually it's it's worse to arrive too early than it is to arrive too late to something and it's very much not the view of kind of people on entrepreneurs building companies but certainly from my experience there's some things that you you you reach the position but you then want to be able to be at your best when you have that position or that role whatever it might be and sometimes that comes with experience and making sure that you have the experience and the judgment to make good decisions when you're in that role Is it also rate of growth that keeps you happy? For me yes So now what happens after having >> done this thing for We've had lots of incredibly interesting discussions I think probably the slightly discomforting thing for me which actually has helped me get more comfortable with is for the first time in my life I'm I I don't I don't know what the the next the next thing I'm I'm not working towards a specific specific thing Will the high ever be the same if I mean you were at the pinnacle of validation and importance in society I don't think any amount of money will get you there So what is the high that makes you feel like relatively higher than the previous high so Cool For me and I think the same for you or you're seeing that more now having this somewhat of a blank canvas is exciting because I love trying out different things I love you know we're talking earlier about risk taking etc not taking risk for the sake of a risk but having a blank canvas or some people might say starting over again right? That's quite exciting because also we have had both of us what feels like because we've been together for now 20 years these incredibly meaningful um just incredible experiences. If So, we we we we have a blank canvas, but I would like to think we have wisdom with it. And we have we're lucky. We we are able to do things that interest us, that fuel our passions. Um So, I'd say that's the first thing. The I I don't know if that's a high or not, but it's exciting to have that blank canvas. And we're starting to lay color on it in our own way. Yeah. Um in ways that are deeply meaningful to us. We're not just doing it to tick a box, right? Um not doing it because we have to get to the next milestone. We don't even know what the next milestone is. Um It's liberating. Yeah, I think that's it. It is in a way liberating. So, I'm 45. Mhm. We're 45. We're 45. Um you know, God you know, God willing I've I've got more both of we've got more working years ahead of us than I've got behind us. >> Mhm. Right. And and that when you think of it like that, I I can't I can't um live day-to-day thinking that the most important thing I've done >> has already happened. already happened and and nothing else I do in life will give me the same fulfillment or purpose. Uh high is the word you used. I I I I don't believe that and that would be a hard way to to live if if if you did. And and the liberating thing is actually as I said, if you're someone who's always been on this you know, track and it's like I think okay, I need to get into this university and then that that degree and then that internship and that job and you know, that MP and all that business school and that MP and then this get into the cabinet and that job, etc. I like this is this blank canvas thing is this is entrepreneurial, right? And there's a you know that better than most, right? There's a fulfillment that comes from building something with a blank starting with a blank canvas as actually said. So, that's what we're now doing and and as you said, it's exciting because you get to start this second chapter, second half of your professional life with all these incredible experiences and skills that you've built up. Yeah. Which you didn't have on that journey. That's what I was saying before. Whereas before it's like rush rush rush rush rush. It was it felt I'm not putting words in your mouth, but it I think when you're 18, 22, starting your first job, etc. I think you it can sometimes feel theoretical where you know in your head, oh, I have to do this job this degree to get this job to get to this place. Whereas now, we don't just rely on kind of established frameworks. We're able to deep dive into what I will call wisdom. Right? We're able to build on those incredible frameworks which are given to you by education, your values, your your your career um experiences, your professional experiences. But also just having had the the vast range of meaningful experiences and you're only 45. >> learning and you learn from them, right? All the failures you've had, all the things that you've got wrong and reflected on and the things that you've got right and understanding what what you're good at and why you get them right. I like I I have I have to believe that roughly, you know, worked 20-something years, will have 20-something years left to work. I'm should be far better set up for success over this next 20 than I was over the last 20. >> But it depends on how you define success, I guess. Yes. Yeah. But if you're defining success by one particular job or position, then then maybe, but I don't think either of us think of that about success like that. So, that maybe is This is very personal to me. A lot of people like last night a bunch of kids were asking me, why don't you become a politician? >> Yeah. And I've never thought of it. I don't have any plan or any inclination whatsoever. But I really want to know, how does it feel? Like to go from working in a corporation to becoming the Prime Minister. How does the attention feel? How does the the criticism feel? How does the the responsibility feel? >> Responsibility, yeah. >> Yeah. So, you know, for someone who's entering into politics, you know, I like I get asked similar question. You know, for young people who are thinking about politics, you know, I say to them there's you you need to be resilient. You need to be patient. And you need to be motivated by public service more than ambition. At at some level. So, those are the I think the things that you you need to make sure that you have. >> What's under that though? The day you figured you're becoming Prime Minister, did you sit at home and you're like, this happened? I didn't have [laughter] time. No, Nika, I I yeah. I It has to be a big thing, right? >> Yeah, you know what? It It It for me, the circumstances in which I became Prime Minister, it was so sudden. I didn't have time to to do much of that. I We were in different places that weekend from the >> Yeah, I was in Yorkshire and you were >> in London. I was I was 1 minute I was with our two kids at TGI Fridays and bowling. I just lost a quite bruising leadership election to to Liz Truss. And I was emotionally starting to look forward to this next chapter of my life, spending time with the kids, thinking about what we were going to do next. Uh and so, I physically and emotionally [laughter] was in a completely different place. And then all of a sudden this thing happened that I was not uh prepared Thinking actively about >> uh emotionally or practically. And it happened just so quickly. And so, you didn't have time. And then I, you know, it was a battlefield promotion, right? And there was, you know, a huge number of things that I had to deal with immediately. Mhm. So, it didn't I didn't really get to have I think we had one call with your parents. Yeah. Cuz they it was So, it was Rishi's mother's 70th birthday that day. It was our youngest daughter's 10th birthday. And it was also Diwali. >> happening, yeah. Yeah. And so, we had one phone call with your parents. And that was going to be that. >> it it actually I at first the moment it kind of first properly hit me cuz the first few days there was so much to do. It was I forget whether it was 5 days, 4 days, a week later. There was a cuz I got became Prime Minister around Diwali. And so, there was a Downing Street Diwali reception a few days after I became Prime Minister. And and it was at that moment I was, you know, I was doing that. And obviously, in particular, the significance of being first British Asian, first Hindu Prime Minister of the UK, it being Diwali, everyone there was very aware of that and Well, I think >> and obviously expressing how much it meant to them. And that's the moment where it kind of did hit me for a second, that aspect of it. Um it was obviously uh it was very nice. Yeah. But to your point, it was an extra also an extra responsibility, I felt, in a in a positive way. Uh you obviously have a responsibility to do a good job in in general. But you know, I I wanted to also make sure I did an extra good job because I was the first of of and representing a lot of hopes and dreams of a community that I I wanted to make sure that I can make them proud as well. It's also crazy because the British ruled India up until 1947 and you know, in a world where we still speak about things like racism, is there a line like while you speak to me? And I watched a bunch of interviews of almost everything I think you guys have done in the recent past. But you're very Indian in a way where you took oath on the Gita, you have Diwali parties, you speak about her parents a lot. Is there a line where you could become too Indian in a way that while you're actively in politics in in England, it could become a problem? It never did. >> Well, but whether it whether it was going to or not, for me, it was non-negotiable. And I wasn't going to change who I was to make that work. So, even if someone had come to me and said, you need to be a bit less Indian or, you know, not talk about this or do that, I I just wouldn't have I'm, you know, we talked about it. I made that commitment to myself. I wasn't going to change who I was for for that. >> ahead in this >> Yeah, and if it and I was comfortable with it. If it was going to be a problem, then it was so be it, right? Like I I, you know, it it just it was never That was how I was raised, right? That's who I am. I'm not I wasn't going to run away from it um just cuz I had that had that job. Um and I and I also think actually, it's uh it was a moment that was remarked on, obviously, in the UK when it happened. But not not so much so. It's not like it really dominated the conversations and that's all everyone was talking about. And people have plenty of issues with me as Prime Minister. That was not really >> the reason that, you know, if someone's going to be upset with me, it wasn't going to be >> not? Why didn't it become a bigger deal? >> Well, I think it I think it's Well, probably cuz the because of the country, right? And how it's, you know, >> Could never happen in the US, for example. But wait, they had a bad >> Every country has a different Yeah, but it was a it was a big deal when it happened. More so than it probably was with me. And I think it just All countries have their own relationship with these types of topics. And the UK is is come a long way. And that's why I think it's a it's a good thing that it wasn't a As big a deal. a big deal. It was a kind of, "Oh, okay." And then we move on. And they'll be upset with me about this or that. But they're not because, you know, "I didn't like what you said here or what you did there." But not because Not not because you, you know, you lit a Diwali diya outside the door Grant even like lighting the diyas outside Downing Street. temple last weekend or something, you know. I know how it felt so meaningful to us. It was so meaningful to our communities. But we didn't even second-guess it because it felt so natural. And no one made us feel like we should second-guess it, if that makes sense, right? Like we didn't feel uncomfortable at all. And I think that's the beauty of the UK is is the your ability to genuinely believe in what you do. >> It was a It was a very nice moment. Cuz I when you become Prime Minister, you you have you have to go see the the monarch. And he was the king who who recently become king. And um he informally invites you to form a a government. And that's that's how the process works. And so I go along to see him before I go to Downing Street. And um And it was a And that was a special moment. Yeah, he's the head of the Church of England as as well as uh being the king and the monarch and head of state, but has always been someone who's talked about being a defender of faith, not just the faith in general. But the And here I was, first British Asian, you know, Hindu Prime Minister of the UK. But the nice thing was, you know, we had tea in the after, you know, tea in the afternoon. But because it it was Diwali, and he's someone who's always been very engaged and supportive of the British Asian community in the UK. And it He There were Diwali mithai. So it was not like kind of tea and scones. You know, tea and um and and mithai that he'd organized. Um which was a really lovely Mhm. you know, kind of relatively unremarked moment. Uh and it I just To me, I thought that was a How are they? How are the monarchy? Uh well, you know, we have this um I've I've met them a few times. I'm in that British Asian Trust. And >> Yes. Yes. I also have a colleague of mine who used to be the ex-chief of staff for uh Prince Charles. King Charles. King Charles. Yeah. So met him a few times, but in the very shake hand, "Hi, how are you?" that kind of way. But how are they? I They're wonderfully warm people. >> Yes. I mean, look, we you know, as Prime Minister, you see the king or previously queen every week for what's called an audience. I watched this in the Winston Churchill documentary, I think. Uh okay. Yeah. >> The meetings, yeah. Yeah. So you have these these meetings weekly, which um And the And then the other thing that is a cast-iron rule of you know, UK government and politicians is that you don't ever talk about >> [laughter] >> the royal family or your dialogue with them. But other than to say, as actually they said, is as you can see, very very warm and um very welcoming people who are committed to service. >> Service. Yeah. Uh and but particularly as I said with King Charles, as you saw at the British British Asian Trust, it's something that he's supported for For a long time. years and years. I'm not going to ask you anything controversial, but the thing that did impress me about Prince Charles is King Charles. King Charles is he was into the climate thing way 20, 30 years before other people were into it. Yeah. Which I thought was very forward-looking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's a huge I I think like he really is a naturalist in so many ways, I think. Yeah. No, he's very he's very passionate about about that. He's very passionate about the natural environment. And he's very knowledgeable about it as well. Okay, tell me more about how it felt. After Okay, the first day, you felt like you didn't have time to react >> Yeah. because you were in whatever tumultuous, busy, busy, crazy, madness, warrior zone. But what happens 3 months later, 6 months later? At some point you take cognizance of it, right? Like you wake up every day and suddenly you have like all the security and this and that. I've been to 10 Downing Street. Your house changes significantly overnight. So Who did you visit? Meaning which Prime Minister? >> it was Boris. It was Boris at the time. But it has beautiful art in that. Yeah, I was so impressed. Someone took me for a tour. Yeah, no, it's So we were fortunate in one sense cuz we'd already been living in Downing Street. Um Not everyone knows, but there are two apartments flats in Downing Street. One for the Prime Minister and one for the Chancellor. So, you know, for us and for our kids, we were used to that. >> space. >> that the the very physical and practical aspect of having security or living in this building with everything that came along with that was something that we were we were used to and our kids were used to. And we made the decision not to change uh flats Mhm. when I went from becoming Chancellor to becoming Prime Minister. Historically, you would move um And uh we made a decision not to do that. We stayed in the smaller >> in the same So we stayed in the same place precisely for our kids so they had that. And for us, we had the familiarity uh with it. Um And And actually it's it's a it's a funny but lovely environment for the kids. Our younger daughter loves history. Mhm. So she would love being in this uh building with all To your point, all the history and the art. And she gave the best tour of By the time we left, gave the best tour of Downing Street. Uh and then there are all the incredible staff that live and work there or work there. For decades even, a lot of them. Yeah. And And they spoil the kids, right? And the kids would go to their security room and get sweets and have fun looking at all the security cameras and kind of spotting what was going on. So it was like home away from home. >> It's You know, they So they you know, they they felt very welcome. Obviously, it's a bit it's a bit odd. Uh but you know, you It's a bit strange when, you know, the Deliveroo or you know, Uber Eats person shows up at the back Back Back Yeah, exactly. [laughter] It's right It shows up at the back gate. >> Is the mailroom London? Uh I don't think so. >> Don't think so. No. Um But So there's a You know, the kids love it. And there actually the lovely lady who ran the cafeteria in Downing Street would always spoil our kids with with kind of bacon sandwiches in the mornings on their way to school and things like that. So there are these all And we got a we got our dog Nova while we were in Downing Street. And so she came there as a puppy. So she also got spoiled by hundreds of people. Um So, you know, that that that very kind of nice aspect. You kind of a growing up in this community. And living in. Living in. Now, there has its downsides, obviously. You My our flat door, you know, Downing Street is very much smaller than people realize. It's very kind of higgledy-piggledy. Like offices and flats. So you'd open our front door to our flat. Yeah. And the Downing Street Policy Unit breakout area is literally Open the door and there's people sitting there having a meeting. Quite a few tantrums. Yeah. So like, you know, like the kids are screaming on your way. Like, "Good morning." And you >> [laughter] >> while they're trying to figure something out. So, you know, those are some kind of day-to-day aspects of it that you you know, you get that you get used to. But for us, as I said, the transition was we had got used to a lot of that uh in any case. Who was the smartest person you think you met while you were in office? >> Both of you. And what did you take away? I find this very, very attractive that you get to meet so many interesting, different types of people. >> Yeah, I would just say like really, really smart people. Or really, really accomplished people, which is not necessarily the same as being smart, but really successful people. Well, we have to think about that, but I'll I'll just talk about the smart You say smart, but I'll give you probably an unorthodox answer, Nikhil. Um So I, you know, we've talked a lot about the power of education to transform people's lives. And so when um Rishi became PM, I I thought about what can I do in my own small way to add some value because unlike the US, um the UK doesn't have a formal role for the spouse, right? Um and so but I also knew that um I I would or I wanted to in some small way have some impact in my own way. And so I started this program called Lessons at 10. So every Friday we got kids in from across the country to come in and be inspired. I mean, the theme was be inspired. Be inspired by the building. Be inspired by leadership. Be inspired to dream. And then every week we had a different theme. So you might love history. I might love rugby. Rishi might love finance. Whatever. Cooking. I mean, across the range. So don't feel like there's only one thing for you. There's Just go out and explore and you might just find that thing that gets you out of bed. And I Every week, Nikhil, I met young people who didn't always In fact, a lot of the time didn't come with huge kind of advantages in life, but they were so inspiring to me. And I think thank you. I think that is a memory that will stay with me forever. So, it wasn't just one famous person, right? It wasn't one famous name, but it was young people, you know, they with their idealism. I think that was really quite quite interesting and exciting. I don't know what you think. Thank you. I think there's not one Oh, yes. I will help myself. Please. >> Yeah, I don't want to you having Yeah, I'll help myself. [clears throat] There you go. There you go. I'll let you. Yeah, I don't think there's I think there's some special moments. I mean, there were lots of special moments. Thinking like the coronation was really special. In terms of individuals Nicholas was talking about was smart. I mean, you know, there's some people are smart in so many different ways. There's not one person that's all or all dominant knowledge, but I mean, look, we're living in this era of AI. And you know, I was I was struck Mhm. spending time with the people developing that technology. Mhm. Right? And you you know them, you've interviewed them, you've met them, but Mhm. I you know, Sam, Dario, and Demis is obviously a Brit. Uh came to talk to me about this very early on in my premiership. And >> You interviewed Elon. I I interviewed Elon as well around that same AI summit. >> like you were really having fun. Yeah, I was um Yeah, I I mean, I was Yes, I was. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> Thank you. Um That was the first AI safety summit. >> Yeah, that was on the AI the evening of the AI summit. Mhm. Um you know, so we had you know, we had It was a Yeah, it was nice obviously being in India this recently for this AI summit here is when we started that summit in Bletchley Park. I didn't imagine that it >> [clears throat] >> it would end up not end up, but it progressed to have this incredible event here in India. Um I I it's nice to have created this this series and it's been to South Korea, it's been to Paris, India, and it will it will keep going. How was it this year, the summit? It was great. I It was I think it it kind of testament to the Prime Minister's leadership that he brought so many of the leading businesses and Thank you, Nicholas. Mhm. uh policy makers together. Mhm. But I think it was for me, what stood out was just the energy and optimism of all the Indian entrepreneurs and people involved in this. It's a It was you know, really striking. Just being in the hall, talking to people, such optimism about this, which is not what you find everywhere, and particularly in the West where there is more anxiety about AI. In India, there's optimism and and excitement and trust, and that is a an advantage. Then you also saw the He's incredibly impressive, isn't he, the Prime Minister? Yes. Yeah, he's very impressive. I mean, look, I I used to you know, talk to him about this when we were when I was in office, and you know, he's been talking about the India stack for a long time. >> in Hindi or English? >> English. Cuz my Hindi is not good enough to do work. >> [laughter] >> I would not trust it to do any serious work any serious work with. Um sadly. Uh but no, he's someone who's understood the importance of technology, the importance of the tech stack. And as you see the announcement from Sarvam, which is superb. I mean, DPI, you know, the Aadhaar and UPI, and now these uh the Ayushman Bharat health accounts. You put all that together, the ability to deploy AI applications to over a billion people Mhm. is uh is is again distinctive advantage for India. So, you know, I all the ingredients are there. Do you believe sovereign AI has a use case? Sovereign AI? >> Mhm. Like what Sarvam was trying to build? Yeah, I So, my approach to sovereignty in AI is and I've been thinking about this a lot. >> Mhm. I think in sovereignty and technology in general is you know, my advice to political leaders or what I would do if I was in office is that you need to do three things. I The The first is you need as a country to figure out where you can ideally control a part of a critical technology supply chain. Right? So, I think it's not realistic for most countries to think they can completely in-source an end-to-end supply chain, certainly for a country like the UK, for example. >> you suspect is that opportunity for India? >> Well, what people here will will know better than me, but it's trying to identify You mean hardware supply chain? It but it could be it could be a hardware capability, it could be a software capability, it could be physical, it could be something it it could be quite broadly defined, but something that you know, as I said, very unlikely that you can end-to-end in-source a supply chain, but think about ASML, that company, critical component of the semi supply chain. So, if you're the Netherlands, right? That's that's good for you, right? To have In a world where hard power matters, the world is more fragmented, the geopolitical environment is more competitive, I think to protect yourself, you need to have an ASML strategy. So, figure out in the technologies of the future, where can you develop a capability that the world will need? So, that's kind of that's point one. The second point and where Sarvam comes into it is you have to diversify your risk and take a portfolio approach, right? So, there will be some And what does that mean? It means not having vendor lock-in, right? Making sure you're building applications and systems that are not relying on a single provider. And look, for some things you want a front-end US model. Some things you want to have data sovereignty and compute and being provided domestically. You don't need that for everything, but what you need to do is think about your portfolio, figure out where you can dial some things up and dial some things down, where can use open source, where can you rely on Sarvam, where is it fine to pull something off the shelf from another country you can switch in and out. So, that's where Sarvam comes in is building that portfolio approach. And then the third thing is partnerships. And actually, look, yes, the world is more contested, but partnerships matter, trust matters, and there will be some things that you can work with other countries on to to mean that You don't have to >> you you can't do everything yourself, but you have enough trusted relationships that you can rely on them. Um and again, you wouldn't fully rely on them, but as I said, these are these three components, if you do all three of those, you're giving yourself as much sovereignty as possible. But what does that mean, sovereignty? What it means is you know, an ability to deploy the technology confidently in your own country according to your values, your laws, your priorities. >> But you say deploy and not develop. Oh, sorry. In order to deploy it in accordance with your and have reliable trusted access to being able to deploy it, which is why you need that portfolio approach. And actually having some whether you're relying on open source or homegrown models all plays into a part of that. Um But in a way you're saying it's better for a country to rely on homegrown or open source rather than relying on American or Chinese >> think you can be that binary, Nicholas, right? I think if you look at the range of use cases and what's realistic for any one country to do, right? You have to look at your your kind of approach to technology as a portfolio. And then there will be a range where if I've got very sensitive security applications, I I want probably an air-gapped cloud, right? I I don't want to be relying on anyone else. I can't have anyone else kill switch that, right? If I'm doing a healthcare application domestically, I might be a bit more okay with the model provider as long as I don't have lock-in, and I can switch out different providers. Could be open source, could be domestic, could be foreign. And you would be skeptical of sharing your data. >> to stay, right? I would want the I there I would want my data sovereignty, and I'd want the compute and to be domestic. And then there'll be some other commercial applications where actually, it's quicker and easier and cheaper to use some foreign thing, and it's it's not mission-critical, and it's just actually I want to prioritize cost and speed. I think India has done it for financial data already, where it's hosted in India. Yeah. I suspect soon all Indian data will be hosted in India. Yeah, I I look, all countries are not just India, all countries are thinking about these issues differently to the how they did in the past because the geopolitical environment has changed. So, you have to think about sovereignty. We're in a world where countries have weaponized supply chains, there's more geopolitical competition, and you you can't afford not to have resilience. And do you think the world will continue to move in this direction where we're kind of like I don't know if I can call it deglobalization where everybody >> It's derisking. I I think you know, you you think about supply chain, it used to be all about just-in-time physical supply chain. It used to be all about just-in-time, and now it's about just-in-case. But do you mean how countries now operate on their own versus the kind of coming together global order? There used to be like I think consensus building maybe up until 5 years ago. Right now it seems to be everybody for them For their own, yeah. I think it Yeah. It's not as dark as that in the sense that you have to be more resilient, right? You have to think about sovereignty because that multilateral rules-based system, much as it existed, Let me give you an analogy you will like. Like cricket used to have a World Cup where all the countries in the world came to play and compete. Now there are 20 different leagues. One big league, many small leagues, some irrelevant leagues. Something like that. Maybe triggered by the Americans. With tariffs and everything else that they're doing. I do still think there is a role for partnerships and cooperation. So look what India has just done. Signed trade agreement with the UK, signed a trade agreement with the EU. Uh the EU has signed a trade agreement with Latin America. The UK joined the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Is currently talking to the Gulf about doing that. So the ASEAN countries are figuring out how to deepen their economic cooperation. So yes, the US has changed its approach. And not just it with this administration, those changes have been in place for a while. It's changed its approach to trade in particular and and it and how it views global defense. But that doesn't mean that other countries have given up on the idea that there can be mutually beneficial trading relationships. >> So lots of different partnerships. And and that they can form mutually beneficial partnerships. Whether that's in technology, whether that's in goods, whether that's in sharing critical minerals supply chain. So I don't think it's as stark as every country is just out for itself, but clearly you have to if you're running a country be more focused on resilience and sovereignty than you were 5 years ago. Are governments forgiving? Does it come down to one person? I'm just painting a scenario. Let's assume Trump's era comes to an end and there is a new president. I don't know, it could be his vice president, it could be Democrats, whoever comes into power. And the UK has a new Mhm. prime minister. Do you go back to zero and start all over or do you remember and you think that oh this person did this? Uh so a couple of things. One is to remember that some of these forces have been in place before President Trump. Uh and it Do I think a future US president is going to suddenly cut all the tariffs? Mhm. All right, the baseline of tariffs for the US is going to be higher in the future. I think regardless who the president is. Um not least because whoever the new president is will have got used to the tariff revenue. It's quite hard thing to to get rid of. Do you believe that tariffs are tariffs are inherently a bad thing cuz many countries have custom duties. And do you produce? Yeah, I Look, I I'm someone who generally believes in free trade, right? I I I'm on the free trade side of things. I think it's important that that trade is uh fair and there are level playing fields, which is why you know, if I think about China's experience in the joining the global trade system, when that was that decision was made in 2001, then there was a I think at the time reasonable belief that that bringing China into that system would A impact its political outlook. Like take China for example. But it But it What happened is China didn't play by the same set of trading rules that everyone else played with. So how do you deal with something like that? If I were China and I say I will not let your technology enter my country, I will build replicas and subsidize it for my own people, I will put tariffs on all the goods that are American coming into my country. What is left in America's playbook? I'll also artificially deflate my currency to make my trade more competent than yours. What's left in America's playbook than to mimic the action of the other country? And And that's where I think, as I said, the trade has to be fair and on a level playing field. And if you haven't got that, then this kind of, you know, free trade model that, you know, works in theory, it it it's it's harder to explain to your citizens and to say that this is fine in practice. And it's not just the US, the EU has done the same thing with uh tar putting tariffs on Chinese electric vehicles because of the subsidization that happens domestically, uh which is then that's not a level playing field, right? If people are freely, fairly competing, then trade can be mutually beneficial. But if one side is unfairly advantaging its exporters with government subsidies to that extent, >> [snorts] >> uh and then they have artificially low prices, then obviously countries are going to take action. And then again, that's not just the US, that's that's the EU. So Can I make a counter argument to that? Yeah. I don't remember what book I was reading this in, but at one point in time in UK's history, Birmingham was the center of innovation. A lot of the patents that were being created in the world happened in that one tiny place. I don't remember where I read this, but they were making a case for how Birmingham and the local economy shut down to foreign products. So the industry locally could thrive. And when they came up to scale and came up to a certain quality, they opened up all over again. Yeah, there's there's a there's an infant industry argument that has, as I said, every stage, every country will have a different approach to this. But, you know, in general between developed countries, where there is a similarity in approach, freer trade is is better in uh in my view. Uh as I said, the key is is it being done in a fair way where there's a level playing field. And particularly with China, you know, that has not been the case, um which is which is a problem. And I think will increasingly become a problem because more and more countries are having to deal with the Chinese development model, which is very export-oriented where that to your point they don't prioritize domestic consumption, they prioritize exports. Uh and then lots of countries now are absorbing a huge amount of Chinese imports. Um and Including India? Including the rest of the world. If you look at what's happened, you know, the US obviously has slowed that down. Chinese exports though and the Chinese trade surplus is a record high as a percentage of global GDP. So all those exports are going to all these other countries. So I think there'll be increasing tension with these other countries. You know, the EU has already put on tariffs on on Chinese EVs. So I think I think you will you will see that. But look, this focus on as your point though about your question about, you know, what happens if there's a new new president, where do things reset to? COVID also was the clarifying moment that many of us lived through in government that made us all focus about supply chains and the resilience of those supply chains. So that You don't forget that and that changes your approach. I think those people who worry about national security were nervous around Huawei telecoms equipment. That was the other big event that happened while I was in government where we went through a process of deciding that we weren't going to rely on Chinese telecoms equipment. And that is before AI, we were focused on that. And that was an expensive and disruptive decision for many countries to take. These things stay, right? Regardless who the US president is or British prime minister, you know, those are structural features that now need to be incorporated in into your thinking. I'm not going to talk to Akshata like she's Rishi's wife or Narayan Murthy's daughter. Uh I think you've been dealt if this were a poker game, Yeah. a really hard set of cards. >> play poker, so I will >> [laughter] >> I'll follow along. I can I can I can I can translate you. I I um but sure, I get I I I But you were saying um dealt a hard set of cards. Yeah. I feel like there is a emotional tax to being interpreted as a extremely successful man's daughter. Where if we were to define happiness as rate of change in a way, very hard to get there. I think people often look at the children of very accomplished men versus women, you mean? men and women as being lucky. But I think the counter is true. I feel like they're some of the most unluckiest people because it's so much harder for them to actually feel a sense of accomplishment. Sense of self, right? Then to have your husband suddenly become the prime minister, it can't have been fun for you. So interesting. So a couple of things. Um I'm hugely proud of my dad and I'm hugely proud of Rishi. But do you know, Nick, and this is maybe come this comes back to that unorthodox thinking that I have. I haven't let it burden me as much, right? So let's talk about my dad. It's partly a timing thing. Um Emphasis was not this kind of what it it what it became in time, you know, hugely successful uh kind of tech uh um start what was a startup and then became a tech business. Um it was a company my dad started because he was looking at how could he add value to India. And he thought originally, you know all of this, right? He thought he communism was the way and then he had a stint in Western Europe and became a big fan of capitalism. So So he was thinking, well, how can I He told me some crazy stories around that. What happened when he was traveling to >> Hitchhiking, all of that, right? That's like a whole another podcast, but um So for him, he he figured out that economic uh development and economic success gave you a a great deal of power on the global stage and and so he said, well, how can I play a small role in helping India um develop that that um credibility and and and stand taller. Um having said that, it was not an overnight success and um and so I saw him in many ways beavering away, right? At something he believed in. He had a Infosys, I I don't know if you remember, but the motto that he came up with was um powered by intellect, driven by values, right? So here he was someone who had a strong has still a strong moral compass and he believed that um you you power that moral compass with deep intellectual rigor. Um with skills that he had, which happened to be in the tech space. Well, he was an engineer. Um but it was not an overnight success. I'm not saying it was a failure, but it took a long time. So I grew up very much being my own person. Um partly my thinking, partly circumstances. And and by the time Infosys became uh more well-known, I was studying in the US. And that also was a slightly unorthodox choice because um I I guess I could have gone into engineering um in India, um but that wasn't my passion. And I always valued breadth um and the liberal arts education offered that and that was on the West Coast in California. So it was far away somewhat. And uh and always made my professional decisions, you know, I I I got the jobs I did on my own. I I I pursued opportunities that I created. Um and so while I was hugely proud of my father, I was also used to standing on my own two feet, right? And then I met Rishi um and this has nothing to do with my parents' success, but he reminded me a lot of my dad. Because he too, like my father, had this huge passion for his country. Mhm. And and I remember one of the things Rishi you said very early on, we were talking about how your parents' journey to the UK had transformed your family's life. And and then, you know, they of course work really hard to provide you with this education and you would one day hope to grow up and in your own way create a platform, create opportunities for lots of other young Rishis to have um boys and girls to have these kinds of opportunities. Um so that reminded me a lot of my dad. Um and so I was again you know, Rishi wasn't in the plan for many reasons, but I but it was inspiring to me. And so for me, my dad has always been someone, yes, he's been successful, he's done really well, etc., but to me he's been an inspiring figure and that's what I've taken away from it and said, how can I then introduce that in my own life through my own journey? And by the way, I'm not a technologist, I'm not an engineer. And I never felt bad about that because I it was very clear to me from very early on I'm going to carve my own path. And so absolutely, and my and and look, you know, Rishi and I got together, etc., Rishi became PM, but even then, that's what I was telling you about lessons at 10, right? Rishi's PM, he does his thing, I would never interfere in his role, in his job, but I was very clear that I was also going to in some way >> Mhm. Thank you. for create my own path Mhm. and do something that I deeply cared about. And and so I guess I'm I'm I didn't feel the pressure in the same way. Right. Um and so I don't for lack of a better term, I don't have a chip on my shoulder about it. I think I feel so Thank you. I feel quite grateful that I've had through for many different reasons access to so many opportunities. And every time I'm thinking, how can I make it my own? And that's been something from when I was very young. So forget Rishi and your dad. Where does Akshata's validation come from? Mhm. So one of my values, I have three values um and we've spoken about some of those things. Um compassion, curiosity, and personal integrity. And personal integrity to me is I define it as being authentic to who I am. Others may not like it. Others may not understand it. But if it if it sits well inside of me, you know, we're talking earlier about intuition, right? I'm I I lean into my intuition more than than average. Certainly between the two of us, I'm I'm more on the intuitive side. Where does I think my Look, I'm not going to say I'm holier than thou and I don't seek validation, of course not. All of us do. I I really care about having impact, right? So what does that mean? Um you know, when we applied to Stanford, they ask you to write this essay and even today they still ask you to write the same essay. It's called at least one of the few essays you have to write um it the question is, what matters most to you and why? And um I remember writing about um rain in Mumbai, actually. Um because around that time I was 23. Um we were I haven't I haven't sort of spent a long time in Mumbai in a long in in a little while, but you know, the monsoon can be quite heavy. And for those of us who have a roof over our heads, we can observe the monsoon and um say, "Oh, that's pleasant." Um but for those of us who don't, it's less pleasant. And so I wrote about equality and how do I help create a a society where there is more equality. Um Equality of wealth? Not so equality of opportunity, at least. Not outcome? No outcome. And look, I was 23, hugely idealistic. And and I really wanted to do do something that helped society in some way, the broader society. And I'd seen my parents through my dad through Infosys and then my mother through the Infosys Foundation marry that impact from capitalism to philanthropy and I was I I that really moved me. That is what we used to And it's what we used to discuss a lot about. >> even at Stanford. And we'd have these big not big, but we'd have these debates, right? About CSR and Yeah, I I I >> come at it from a bit more of a traditionally capitalist >> Capitalistic economic [laughter] economic argument, yeah. And and actually stood out for again, especially in a business [clears throat] school environment, Rishi, you always stood out cuz you were always that the one person in whatever study group you were >> does it impact society? How does it impact the most vulnerable people? How does it I think it's all validation. If one person gets validation through a capitalistic win, Yeah. another gets it through a moralistic win or an altruistic win. It's all validation. >> No, fair enough. You're I feel like we're all seeking the same height. Yeah. The pathway is different. Different. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know that. Yeah, no, fair enough. >> That's that. The this pathway comes further down the journey than that pathway. Cuz I think you have to win at capitalism before you can win at morality. And that that was And and and many people will say, Nikhil, all well and good that you want to be altruistic, you don't have to pay the bills or you don't have to worry about paying the bills, right? I get that. But then I also feel a huge sense of responsibility as a result. >> And and to your point, you need to do the first bit. Mhm. You generate like which is what your dad did, right? It was you you have in that impact only because you've been able to create the wealth and create the platform the >> So So either I can be moan that and say Oh no. I'm either person X's daughter or person Y's wife etc. Or I can say I'm hugely lucky to have what I have. What do I do with it? So in the in the sense that blank canvas I've had much earlier in my life. Yeah. And let me tell you some of the pictures I've drawn have not been pretty, right? [laughter] But I've had the blank canvas and I and I I think that's that's it's also a little bit my personality. Like I don't It's that poem that you gave me, you know, when we first met or the one of the first gifts you gave me that Are you that guy who gives poems? No, he is not. He's given ME ONE >> [laughter] >> ONE. >> [laughter] >> IT WAS EARLY ON. IT WAS IT'S IT'S ONLY just been one. It [laughter] it has only been just one. But anyway but I knew of it anyway. That's why you gave it to me not like you introduced me to it. It's by Rudyard Kipling called If and my mother reminds me all the time that um these words are painted or carved in the in the changing rooms in in Centre Court in Wimbledon before you go out to play the tennis match. Why if I'm I'm not going to quote it exactly at all but you know, if you look at winning and losing as two sides of the same coin Mhm. then you you're truly a man. Yeah. If you can if you treat If you treat triumph and disaster and disaster as two imposters just the same, right? >> So so um I I I think that's that's the kind of stuff that made >> you are. That is my approach to life. Like you know, so you know, I started a fashion business we finished business school and then I was working in brand consulting. During business school I'd written a uh Before you get but that that point on the that is very who you are. You are much more which I've learned from. Like when you know, the good things happen, don't get carried away. Not that you're not Bad things happen. >> grateful, appreciative, all of that. Like when Rishi became PM. It's a huge moment but it didn't That's why I think we both kind of struggled down to that question because it wasn't like not because we don't honor it and are hugely proud of that moment. Great triumph. Mhm. But equally anyone who's had great triumph will tell you you also see great disasters, right? And then I It's it's very evolved that you accept the cards that you're dealt because many others in your position really struggle with it. I'll tell you another thing that is bad today. I don't know if it's good or bad but for somebody who gets their high from the moralistic altruistic wins in life society or pop culture has suddenly become conditioned in a manner where anybody who goes out and says they're doing something to do good the general emotion is distrust. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're not you're not trying You almost feel like you're going against the tide. Timing is difficult. But but but there again Nikhil that's who I am. Mhm. Right? And that doesn't mean I I have won as such at at life, right? I've had my ups, I've had my downs. Um but I know I will always have stayed true to who I am and what my beliefs were. Yeah. And you have a very clear sense of that. Yeah, a clear I've a clear sense of who I am. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you have much I'm not going to impose that on you or or I mean I impose that a bit on you but >> [laughter] >> but we In the nice in the nice way. But but it it it it's so liberating. Mhm. Um and you know, another way to look at it is during the during the pandemic Rishi became Chancellor which all happened quite suddenly. So so I was with the kids a lot and you know, you're just trying to like figure out how to live this new life and I picked up Herman Hesse's book called Siddhartha again. And you you read about what what uh Lord Buddha said and it's the middle path. It's the balance. Mhm. That doesn't mean you shun desire desire but equally you don't shun um austerity. Mhm. Right? You you embrace both in a way because what comes out of that that those two extremes comes the middle path. And Anushka was saying this the other day. She if she's our youngest daughter, she's 13. She said the the Romans I hope because I don't know this philosophy as well as she does. She she was talking about the Stoics versus the Epicureans. Mhm. The Epicureans are all about >> than Roman. More Greek actually, exactly. The the Epicureans embraced desire Mhm. and and amusement >> Mhm. um and the Stoics somewhat shunned that. But actually the the happy place is somewhere in the middle. And it's not you're not on the moral high ground if you think you are a Stoic versus an Epicurean. And that's the balance, right? So I have always chased for lack of a better word, that balance. Mhm. And so even in the highs of highs of my parents' success and they've had their highs and their lows like any human being even in the highs and and lows of our own life together I've I've tried. I don't always succeed at finding that balance. Do you think you need to retain that balance throughout or is it okay to allow yourself to drift between both the sides? >> I definitely drift between both. And in fact I remember one of the first things my mother said to me, "Oh, what do you like about Rishi?" And I said he he just allows me to have more fun. Mhm. And we were talking earlier how our parents are diff diff you know, my family's more reserved, intellectual um quieter. I'm not saying that's bad and one is good and but I met Rishi who was lots of energy and lots of excitement about so many different things and and so I thought that was amazing. You know, a different way of looking at life. Um so I've always I I haven't the balance comes from embracing both I think. Yeah. Because then you say, "Oh, this doesn't quite feel right all the time or this doesn't quite feel right." And then you might say, "Well, how do you know? How do you know?" I think there's a feeling inside whether you want to call that intuition, it's gut, it's it's a kind of deep uh feeling you get and I've had that from a young as a young person. So I just I have a theory for this. >> Yeah. I feel like our South Indians >> Yeah. never saw war as frequently as the North Indians did. We didn't see conflict. >> I have the exact same theory. Yeah. People who don't know how long they're going to live for Embrace the moment. Embrace the moment. I think we have to learn from them to embrace the moment a bit more. >> Completely. Completely. In fact I would say I remember even in our wedding my mother and I we have these kinds of discussions. And she we both love history and that's exactly what her and I said is in general North Indian weddings tend to be bolder and um quite fun. And South Indian weddings seem more tame in in comparison and you're absolutely right. That you have to make the most of what you have when you have it. So again, no moral kind of judgment about it. Um but have that but know that that life is not just about that, right? Yeah, so maybe middle ground is the the middle path, yeah. Almost always the answer. Almost for so many things. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, you have to you have to develop that ability not to get carried away by success but equally not to be so deflated by failure. You you know, that said when thinking about failure, there's good and bad ways to deal with it. You you've got to turn it into something positive but that requires a mindset where if something bad happens your store the story you tell yourself about it can't be one which is victim centered. Mhm. Where like this bad thing happened because I was a victim of this or victim of that and all these bad things happened to me. You have to be able to more objectively look at it and just self reflect and say, "What did I not quite get right? What did I misjudge?" And turn it then it then you can turn it into something positive where you say, "Okay, now how do I improve my process for the future?" And and you've always said this to me. You said you'd be kinder to yourself cuz I'd be beating myself up and you always say be kinder to yourself. >> say to Rishi, I say this to the girls cuz we have two teenage girls. They're 13 and 14 and I say if the person you have to be kindest to first is yourself, then you understand deep inside what that actually means before you can practice it in the real world. And I know we talk about that a lot. And and you remember if you're in these jobs, if you're leading, that most of the decisions that you make almost by definition are 50/50 decisions. And if they were not like someone else would have made it, and and so the only decisions that come to you are the exceptionally hard 50/50 ones. And you in terms of being kind to yourself, you have to recognize you're not going to get all of them right. Like you know you and you are in that position and someone else said this to me, a very successful technology executive said this to me at the early meeting he had with me and actually in Downing Street. He said that you're in this position because your ability to make those decisions is on on average better than most other people. Right, your judgment is on average better or you wouldn't be sitting here, I wouldn't be talking to you. So trust that and have some confidence in it and and then, you know, when things don't go right, as long as you're honestly self-reflective about it recognize good and bad outcomes of the same process, reflect and then think what you can learn from it, take away for the next time. You know, that you know, that is a very I mean as I learned how to do that, not perfectly, but because I still help me and you're still learning. But it's that is it's a very necessary part of being a good leader is how you No matter what you do, it's not just political leadership. I just understanding these failures, how to cope with them, how to then turn them into something positive so that you grow and it doesn't consume you cuz you can get into a negative spiral off it where it's very damaging. I've become really fascinated by this term called metacognition, right? Which is thinking about the thinking. So look at an outcome and you say, okay, outcome X happened, why did it happen? Why did I behave the way I did? Did I deploy my strengths and weaknesses? Why are those my strengths versus these? Um and then regulating your thinking. Metaregulation, right? I thought I think that is um metacognitive regulation. Metacognitive I I I just think that's just a a fascinating way for where humans are heading. I find most words which have meta in the beginning are very interesting. >> [laughter] >> Exactly. Let's just add metacognition. >> sounds good. Yeah. >> Metacognitive regulation. >> Yeah. I must say you both make a really good case for marriage. >> [laughter] >> That's good to hear. SOME DAYS I'M GOING to clip that AND PLAY IT >> [laughter] >> AS A RINGTONE. IT'S SO WEIRD YOU SAID THAT CUZ THAT'S exactly the same thing I [laughter] was going to say. That's going to be our ringtone. We're very yin and yang. But it comes with more friction in a way because what we're talking about right at the beginning cuz we approach things differently and we are quite different, but there's a I'm going to give you You know, there's a common set of values and and and so the the product of it, I think it is better as a result of the combination of us on most things. We get to a better answer, but >> silly example. There's a There's >> have to say this before your deep thought. I'll finish this thought. Rishi Rishi >> [laughter] >> We turned 30 around the same time. We were in LA at the time and this new ice cream shop opened and I said to Rishi, you know they have like 30 flavors. It's all natural, etc. And he's like, oh no, I just like vanilla. So we go there and they do have 30 flavors, right? Like Sichuan peppercorn ice cream. Oh, I love that. Yeah. Passion fruit, I don't know. Black pepper, all sorts of things. And I mean, Rishi picks vanilla. And I'm like what do you mean? And he's like, well, what would you pick? And on purpose I picked the most bizarre flavor that is because that's kind of my approach to life. Like give me a give me a situation and I will look at it with a totally risk-taking mindset. Mhm. Whereas Rishi wouldn't That wouldn't be your first step. No. You wouldn't say what is the most risky thing to do. I mean, I'm exaggerating, but but but you would say, well, what's the sensible The rest of that story Right. That all sounds great. The rest of that story is You [laughter] hated your flavor? You didn't She didn't like the right? So we left and then she didn't like it. And then we've gone and then she then I have No, no. No, then she ate mine, right? [laughter] And then I'm stuck not cuz I feel like I'm forced to eat this thing that I don't like. You you know, >> [laughter] >> and then so it's all very well. That's the yin and yang. Yeah, the yin and yang. When I think of marriage Mhm. I feel like it has worked so well Mhm. in a certain way it's a great way to ensure against loneliness and always have attention and validation, the concept of family. Because you don't get the peaks and the troughs. You but you get a little bit every day. I'm trying to think um I mean, I I think I mean, I I without question could not function if we weren't married, right? And in terms of profes- professionally function, not just personally. Cuz I I can't imagine doing all the things that I've had to do on my own. So and it's your point loneliness, not just in a social companionship perspective. Which I actually I mean, that's that's nice, but I there's much deeper than that. It's like having this You know, people talk about life partner, whatever the word you want to use. It's It's called soulmate. So there there's this partnership, but I'm not even trying to get to that bit of the I think I should almost more practical. I think that there is that and that is obviously wonderful. But the slightly more practical aspect of it is is someone who you can share these very difficult things with and who can support you you need it. Or not support. I think it's it's brings out the best in you. Yeah, I you know, and sees you in a way that not everyone sees you. >> And where the sum is greater than the parts, right? So certainly for I That is particularly acute I think for everybody, but you know, if you're in one of these very high-pressure situations. You know, you you can't do that on your own. Well, I certainly could not have done it on on my own. He's not your therapist. Yeah, he's Maybe these days he could be your therapist, but that's not the same. For me it's a bit like that. >> [laughter] >> Probably a bit tricky if you're prime minister. But but but I'll tell you the counter to that, right? So we have together faced ups and downs um whilst staying true to who we are, etc. But like one of the criticisms I've faced as well Don't What's your identity, right? Because as you rightly said, you know, you're your father's daughter or you're your husband's wife. And so um It's It's got me thinking, you know, what's identity about? How do you define yourself? And is it is it based on where you live, what language you speak, what you eat? But we're saying you're different, right? Um And you know, I've lately I've been getting a lot of pushback on my accent, right? You grow up in Bangalore Do you understand any of that? I don't. >> [laughter] [laughter] >> Just like being at home. >> [laughter] >> Um anyway, um I'll come back to that accent thing in a second, actually. Um but but I've Does Nikhil speak more like your mom or dad? I would assume more like my dad. Yeah. My South Canada, right? Yeah. Cuz my dad, yeah. Um So what's Where do you get your identity from? So So for me, my identity comes from genuinely having impact. And I'll unpack that. So it's how can I give to the communities in which I live? How can I stay true to my values? How can I honor my heritage? And so whatever we do professionally um even how we raise our children, I'm constantly thinking I'm probably less worried than most about some of the more I'm not going to use the word superficial, some of the more tangible concepts of identity like what food we eat or what language we speak or um How you dress. Or how you dress, how I sound. Um, but but staying true to your values, staying true to to what matters most to you. Um You know, that's how I've defined Oh, thank you. That's how I've defined my identity versus versus it being trying to match someone else's or trying to meet societal expectations of what identity should be, right? And so like with my accent, for example. Actually, let's take a step back. In you know, I remember Rishi and I came to India for the G20. And it was incredibly emotional for me, Nikhil, because I was coming to to the place where I was raised. I was coming to the place that defined my heritage, of which I'm very proud of. I was coming to a place that was my former home. But in a way representing a different home, right? So, how do you handle that? And that's that really got me thinking about, well, in a scenario like this who are you? Are you British or are you Indian? Are you neither? Are you both? And it reminds me of what I think PM Modi said, I think in 2015. Uh maybe when he was in the UK for that Wembley Wembley uh event. And he said, you know, the Indians who are living in the UK are all part of the living bridge, the Indian diaspora. Um and and they connect Britain to India and vice versa. And so I'm but one of the people living on this bridge, you know, the bridge that you know, when you think of a bridge, it connects two places. It doesn't belong just to one place or the other. So for me, my when I think deeply about who I am in in in the context of of current day, I am part of that living bridge. I feel incredibly at home in India. I am incredibly emotional about my um I use the word emotional because I'm it moves me. My my heritage, I'm incredibly proud of my heritage, my um how I was raised. Um but I have also had these incredibly meaningful experiences in the UK. That's where we're raising our family. And I am deeply committed to that community as well. So the things that I'm engaging in now and I'm doing them in areas that mean things to me. So in arts, culture history, entrepreneurship um creativity uh these are areas that speak to me and I'm constantly looking at how can I honor both these places and play a small role in bringing them together. So so long-winded way is um I'm very much a Bangalore girl with a British accent. >> [laughter] >> You're not as big an RCB fan as me. There we go. True. Jayanagar girl. Jayanagar girl, yes, yes, yes. We probably went to many of the same restaurants cuz we're the age. Yeah. Well, I still think you're quite a bit younger, but you know. >> No, 39 45. >> but it's like when you hit 40, yeah, yeah. 18 MTR. MTR is not in Jayanagar. MTR is more near Basavanagudi, I think. Okay, fine. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> Jayanagar used to have >> Which ones do you think you might enjoy another? I would say >> a place called Dosa Camp. Yes, in fourth block. >> I remember the day it opened. They put everything in the dosa from mushrooms to baby corn to whatever you can think of. >> Yeah. Yeah. That ice cream place was presumably not there when you were growing up. The Corner House? Corner House. Oh, it was there? Oh, right. Yeah, we go there. Yes. I used to eat I kept going back. They had a thing called Death by Chocolate. >> Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They still have it. My kids had it two days ago. Yeah. Adigas was there back then? Adigas was there I can't remember where exactly it was. And then there was some I think the first time I came your dad thought I should have this Indo-Chinese food. Yeah, I mean that's all yeah. You guys live near that park, right? Near the ground. Yeah, not park, ground. Yeah, ground. I used to go there to play cricket. >> Yeah. Yeah. I I have played cricket there. Yeah. >> On my first trip. Less now, but I used to come. Can you get by in India without security and stuff like that? It you know, I it is the most incredible thing when I'm here because people are so kind, they are so welcoming, they're so supportive. Uh and it is a humbling every time. Um so I I do as best job I can as trying to talk to as many people as possible and and say thank you to them and chat with them. Um so it's a it's a wonderful and overwhelming experience every time. >> Well, you make us look very good, I hope. Like you keep winning and doing better in different things. >> is good. And then we we love I was going to say great work, good week at the summit. We have I probably now now that I'm a bit freer it's nice cuz we can be here more often. And we're I've been in India almost every few months for the past year or but you know, it's been really lovely. And we've been home. We've taken the kids on different places. They saw Taj Mahal last year for the first time. I've done lots of work things here. We And then we were And then the cricket, you know, I've I've seen I've been in Bombay for cricket with your dad. We went to the IPL final. So it's been great. We did Jaipur Literary Festival last year. So it's now we're getting a chance to enjoy a bit more of all these things. I'm going to ask you another selfish question. I think a big motive I have I'm using myself as a placeholder, but I think a lot more young people need to participate in politics. I think you're like testament to that. I think it's a great thing in society and more needs to happen. When you become a politician and you see these really big problems uh I'll I'll be a little specific to your to the to the to England and you know, that use case, but say fixing the NHS, reducing debt, reducing inflation. For somebody sitting on the outside a young guy who wants to be in politics when you go in and try to fix these problems how hard is it? Is it possible Is it Is it that one person can actually change stuff? I've I've lots of thoughts. So I think if you if you want to do it, you need to have resilience. You need to have patience and you need to be driven by service rather than ambition. You need resilience because it is unforgiving, right? It In this day and age with social media like you need to have thick skin. We've talked all about how, you know, you cope with failure, but just coping with the day-to-day criticism, you you have to be able to to deal with that. Um and and partly the best way to to deal with it, by the way, is is not to engage with a lot of it cuz we're all human, right? You can have the thickest skin in the world, we're all human. Um but you do need that resilience. You need patience cuz I'll come to this in a second, things take longer than you would think. Uh certainly longer than the private sector. Um and and look, all politicians, if we're being honest, are motivated by both ambition and duty or public service. I think every politician being honest, there's there's both, Personal ambition. I I think yeah yes, personal ambition, right? I think I think if they're being honest, I certainly am. Most politicians are they're motivated by both. You just need to know where you will sit on that scale. And if you are overly weighted towards personal ambition, I think you will not be successful. People will see through it and it won't you won't have that impact. >> You won't be able to do the things that are necessary to succeed. So I think those are the three preconditions for for getting involved. Then I'll I'll answer your answer your other question about you know, can young people do it or what how do they think about change? I you know, there's there's some things that I think some, not all, but some young people misunderstand about how to bring about change. And I think one is this is kind of almost cinematic notion that change happens in a moment. Yeah. It's a speech. You have to remember we have grown up on movies which one guy becomes the prime minister for a day and fixes the country. That's it. Great story. >> [laughter] >> And change is less about a moment and a move it's more about a movement, right? It it it takes time. Uh and the other thing is you know, voice matters, but change comes about through participation. And again, there's this romantic notion that change comes about because you're the outsider, the rebel, the disruptor. Actually, the change happens more because people become part of the process. They become part of the institutions. They change from the inside through a period of time and and hard work. And that's what I try and get across to young people is you know that's for the most part how substantive change happens. It happens when you decide to come inside and be part of the process and take the time to bring it about. The kind of romantic cinematic notion that it can happen from the outside being the disruptor with one speech or amazing protest you know that it works in the movies. I think it's less about real life which is why young people should if they do want to change things for the better do it through through government and come into public service and come in come into politics to to bring it about. >> and then do what? And then and then >> Convince other politicians? Sorry? Convince other politicians? >> I think let me give you an example I use because people say oh you can only have change if you become prime minister and not everyone gets to become prime minister and I say that's not true. And the example I give young people who are thinking about becoming an MP is of a guy called William Wilberforce. Mhm. And he was an MP in Yorkshire same as me and my predecessor as a member of parliament wrote a beautiful biography about him. Now William Wilberforce was someone who essentially abolished the slave trade Mhm. in the UK and then internationally and then helped abolish slavery. He was never a cabinet member let alone prime minister or chancellor. He made a decision to do it only as a backbencher MP because he believed that would give him the freedom and the moral authority and the time to focus on this one thing. He also had patience. From the first time he entered parliament and made a speech about it it took 20 years for him to get a bill [clears throat] passed in parliament to abolish the slave trade and then another 20 odd years to have parliament declare that slavery itself was illegal. And then he died 3 days after that right so his career on this issue spanned 40 years of which the big meaningful the first meaningful thing happened after 20. And during that period he had all the things that we've been talking about he had to cope with failure. Parliament voted more than 10 times no no no [laughter] no no. Um But like we discussed earlier if everybody has to have the incentive of personal ambition being met how do I incentivize a young guy who will only find that personal ambition need being met if he sits in a position of power? If he sits in a position of power. Oh, well. Well, but then this goes back to what we were saying before there are lots of different ways to make a difference right in life. There are lots of different ways to have impact. But if you want to have impact on that scale the best way to do it is through government or or through the political process. And that's what I'm saying but even though you I'm saying you need to do it through that we don't need to but the best way to do it is through the political process it doesn't mean you have to be the prime minister Yeah. or in the cabinet. What I'd say is there are hundreds of members of parliament. Right? That is a different bar to becoming the prime minister but this individual William Wilberforce as one of 600 odd member or however many it was in those days hundreds of members of parliament was able to bring about this very significant change and and he didn't do it on his own either. He would touches on what we were saying before. He built a movement around him other people played their part and now he was the the the person at the front. Um but I think it's a really instructive story for young people to read and I was inspired by it because I didn't know I was going to end up in cabinet or being prime minister but it was you know as long as as well as what actually this dad said to me it was a great story of how one person can you say can one person do that? It takes more than one person of course there's a team but it you know this was one person who made it his mission to do it. And it goes back to what you said earlier Nikhil about different motivations being complimentary and actually I was talking about this and I he had a moral view that slavery was wrong. And that's what motivated him and he was a person of faith and but he was smart. Mhm. Right? And he recognized that wasn't the best way to persuade everyone. And actually he came up with an economic case as to why slavery was wrong and he came up with a patriotic security case why the slave trade was wrong because Britain was in a war with France and he was saying well people are giving slaves to French they'll be able to come and beat Britain so we should ban the trade and he was clever that way right? So for him it was a moral mission but ultimately he knew some people would be motivated by different things so he was able to bring all of that to bear. Um and ultimately as I said have the patience have the resilience the storytelling that we talked about but based actually oddly as well he was great orator uh you know you and I talking about learning from that but there was another guy called Thomas Clarkson who did all the hard work of documenting Mhm. what was happening in these camps in the slave plantations on the boats where people were being traded all of which was awful and just painstakingly documented all this detail and hard work which ultimately then became part of these these stories. So I think it's a really powerful way to illustrate how change comes about how politics is the best way parliamentary processes are the best way to bring about massive change but also illustrating that you don't need to be the prime minister or in the cabinet to to do it. But totally agree but I think maybe Nikhil what you're getting at is what kind of people should go into politics? >> Yeah. Who who should get into politics? >> No, I'm thinking for our audience like the people we are speaking to are young Indian wannabe entrepreneurs. If I have to convince one of them to become a politician I need the I need to meet their need for validation and their personal ambition need both. I'm trying to put something in each box. In the validation and ambition box. But I So first of all I don't think they need to give up being an entrepreneur. Mhm. Right? What we talked about before I think people are more effective as politicians or in government having brought that experience into parliament >> Mhm. with them or into government with them. So for the people listening you know I I would say go build your business. You you're going to learn an extraordinary amount doing >> thinking how to trigger them to enter politics today. After they build the business or right now? Right now. Well do they need to? Yeah. >> Why do they need to do it today? I this is the thing. I mean sure some people might want to. I'm my personal bias is for people to do something else first. Yeah. And I don't think and this goes back to what we were saying before there's you know rush rush rush. Yeah. Build your business. Why? Because it will give you that validation that you want. And skills and >> And set of practical skills and financial security and independence and my word what an incredible platform that is to then enter politics where you have so much more understanding and self-awareness of who you are. Mhm. You've already got that validation which means you will enter the political arena with so much more personal self-confidence. Mhm. The resilience of having had the ups and downs of building a business and doing something and then using that experience to benefit the country. But that that motivation has to be one where you are getting into it because you want to make your country a better place. >> Yeah. But that has to be at the core of it right? And you that's okay to be ambitious about it. That is true for many many young people I know. >> Yeah. But what I'm trying to also see is for a country where the average age is 28. >> Yes. We need more people who are 28 in parliament. I look I I can see I look I can see that. I can see that overall I can my point about as an individual I think you're better off But but having the experience. I can see if everyone does that and then nobody is in parliament young age. I can I can see that. But maybe Rishi it it comes back to that passion thing which you were saying so eloquently about William Wilberforce right? So I don't know the history so pardon me but he He entered He entered parliament at 28. Right. So he Thank you. Thank you Rishi. He had this deep-seated passion for abolishing slavery. That mattered more to him than anything else. And in a country as large as India where you said the average age 28 I am sure there are young people or 28-year-olds who there are at least some 28-year-olds who will have these moral missions. They will be. Yeah. But they don't need to this again what we were saying before. >> Yeah. They don't need to just have some moral or social mission. It's a great mission if someone is listening to you but cares passionately about entrepreneurship. Right? Then you know that's not a social necessarily a kind of social outcome but it going into parliament to make sure that India is a fantastic country for entrepreneurs >> [clears throat] >> to encourage all the people listening to you to grow their businesses But but [clears throat] they're passionate about entrepreneurship and and they recognize that entrepreneurship is important to India succeeding go into parliament and be the champion for that. Right? Be the a for small business for example. >> know, >> does it mean to make India the I mean India is already very vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem, but we can all get better. But that can be your passion. It doesn't have to be I it's fine. There will be some people who have a more social classic No, no, I agree. I mean we are also leaning into who we are, right? Like cuz you're you're [laughter] I'm I'm being think you know, for lots of people who are entrepreneurial minded or technology minded, those things can be put to incredible positive good for India. So you can be excited and passionate about those areas and think actually well, I'm going to use politics as the vehicle to make sure India and Indians prosper when it comes to technology, when it comes to entrepreneurship, right? That can be your mission and passion to do. >> comes from I mean you'll speak better than me, but you know, if you can get some kind of law passed, right? That makes it easier for small businesses to be incorporated. That makes it easier for us for not to get into controversial topics, but social media to be regulated. Whatever it is, right? >> When you do one thing, when you contribute to changing one clause and one law that's passing parliament that will unlock something special for entrepreneurs or technologists, for the rest of your life you will have done that for 1.4 billion people, right? >> [laughter] >> It's a it's a pretty big I mean you talk about validate where people want validation. I you know, sure, it's great to have a company and a unicorn IPO. That is great. Changing a law that is going to impact 1.4 billion people and how your country progresses. You think about the compounding benefit of that? Like that is you know, sure it doesn't all that value doesn't accrue to you personally. The monetary value doesn't. But the right, that's where you have to be motivated the societal value is not in the unicorn billionaire hundred million here. It's in the hundreds and hundreds of billions. Um please all the all the millions and millions. So I I you know, I'm excited to be 28 and going to politics now. [laughter] There are some, you know, You know the guy in our constituency South Bangalore is quite young. Who is he? Yes, his name is >> Tejasvi. Tejasvi, yes. Friend of mine, he's a young chap. The the other the other reason that people should think about it is not withstanding everything I said before about experience and everything else. It's it's differentiating, right? If you are one of very few young people, you are differentiated in part. Public adoration is a big point of validation. Which does come with being a politician. But but can I I think that I say that that is a It's different in different countries. >> That's a tricky path. Yeah, that is in different countries. May maybe more so here. Um thank you. You're welcome. Uh You know, cuz in in lots of places in the west it's quite unforgiving. All right. The day-to-day experience of most politicians is hard, right? Because of things like social media and the criticism and things like that. It's very it can be very rewarding and fulfilling, of course it can be. But for you know, it's not every day is you know, like a all sunshine and rainbows. Um it comes back to what I wrote about in my Stanford Business School essay. And in fact, I did write about this is the solution is education. So here's what I mean. You know, when you think of a society and how it progresses, there there many different ways, but you want to make sure that you the society that you live in the the government of the land of the nation provides sufficient security so that the basic needs are met, right? Now, I know that that isn't always easy, but that's sort of the focus. And then you think well, okay, then how can we progress as a society? And to me the answer is education because education in my mind is one of the things that allows equality of opportunity to emerge. Um In a way has that been solved for because education has gotten democratized with internet and AI and all of that. Like I never went to college. >> Yeah. I can choose to pick a book I like to read and read it. Yeah, but that's because you're fundamentally curious. Mhm. So I define education more broadly, right? >> but because Paul's right. And I was talking about it the summit. It's one of the to me one of the incredible things that AI can do. It isn't just about raising the ceiling. It can lift the floor for humanity. And the most obvious ways it can do that are democratizing access to health care and education. All right. Where you've got now it is possible that before too long every single child will be able to have the best possible teacher >> That's the job of philanthropy of government of of uh organi- different organizations to to enable those outcomes, right? So yes, any child who lives in a certain society should have access to what I think is a broad sense of education. Of course, that's letters and numbers, but it's also curiosity. It's problem thinking skills. Because when you are when you have that in your toolkit, that's when you you you you create entrepreneurs. You create um innovation. You create uh wealth in so many different ways. And and then the tax is kind of the next step, but I think how do we first create that equality of opportunity so that more people are able to create that wealth in the first place. But even with education barring the risk capital, if asset prices continue to inflate at the pace that they are, it'll be very hard for the inequality to come down. I met this interesting guy, Michael Milken. He spent a lot of money and time coming up with this plan where he wants to give every child who's born a certain amount of >> Exactly. So that's what I was just going to say. equity in the beginning. Troy I mean like this is your whole life, right? Um But trying to give more people a stake in the system, a financial stake is a good thing. I think even the US is considering this. >> The US is going down this road. >> doing something around that? Uh Michael Dell has helped part fund some of it. Bec- And it's partly what some of the work that motivates our charity in the UK that we've set up, the Richmond project, which is around numeracy. It's cuz if if people have better, stronger number skills, then they can be more financially literate. And which is the research from Stanford actually tells us some of these foundational skills you need to understand are inflation and compounding. They are two fundamental things that lots of people do not understand. And if they don't, that inequality will widen. Cuz if you understand those things, you're smarter about >> then you you recognize that inflation erodes the purchasing power. And comp- If you understand the power of compound interest or compounding in general, right? And you understand that when you're young, right? Those two things. And of course, to Dr. Paul's point, you need to have had a good education to have a decent job, but you need to then think with your I need to save, right? There is an element of saving. This is how I should save. This is why I need to save. That compounds over time. Like that's what we need to do more of. Other than otherwise that gap will keep growing. Maybe I should take education back and say learning. Being curious. Being How do you teach someone to be curious though? Yeah. That's I mean I have to think about that. We uh Yeah. Milken Michael Milken had this interesting thought that if you start somebody off with say I don't know, a thousand dollars in a S&P index fund like an ETF, psychologically them knowing that they have something something to lose psychologically changes behavior significantly more than the cost of the thousand dollars. I I I I think there's probably something to that. And that's our way of contributing to that is is through giving people the the financial literacy the confidence they need with our literacy with numbers. >> numbers and therefore financial literacy so they know what to do with it, right? And and even if not everyone is going to be able to be given the thousand dollars, right? So either you need the people who are able to save to recognize they should save, how to save, that it's worth their while saving. Um so I I'm uh I'm a I'm a big believer in that. I your point is interesting on curiosity cuz we um we talk about that uh a lot. Um and I I actually think they're slightly different things. Because actually there's very big on just being curious for the sake of being curious and trying to instill that in the kids. >> Learning for the sake of >> learning. I'm I'm a little bit more learn for a purpose, a bit practical applied, but I I've come to realize that I think one of the you know, one of the most kind of compounding skills that you can develop is exactly this. It's I do we call it learnability, which is a little bit different from your curiosity, but they're linked. And and I just think about my own career, you know, it's diverse finance, government, technology policy. Like the the the compounding skill is being able to learn new things. And I think that is only going to be more relevant in this new world. So if I like when I talk to young people now and I say like just learn how to learn. That [laughter] that >> to me is education, you know? So it's not about a degree. It's not >> about a fixed exactly. It's not about a fixed point thing. Maybe the solution lies in what you said earlier. You brought up Greek philosophy. Yeah. Maybe AI will solve this problem as well because in times of abundance, we go back to like the Greeks did in their time philosophy and anthropology. It was an entire profession to sit and think about life. And that's to me is what makes us more human. Yeah. Maybe AI and productivity gains and abundance will get us to that point where everybody has more than enough. Yeah. So then we can sit and think about that. Yeah. Yeah. It's what was said in that when you and Elon had that conversation. Yeah. It's a very utopian way of It's a very utopian way of the world. And [clears throat] and until we get to that point Sure. I I think people's careers will keep changing. So this ability to keep learning new things I think is a underestimated very powerful quality to have. How do you see AI in your lives? What do you use it for? Oh. Like the biggest use case. Biggest use case I mean for me is research, right? Thinking about research and things. >> likely Claude cuz you're consulting with that thing. So I the Claude is what I use the most and Have you given Claude all the connectors access and allowed it to >> to do that now. So I'm start I haven't yet. I've got this course that I'm about to do uh to start using it for I want to start using it with Excel. I've given it a lot of access and now I'm worried cuz I don't even go to my email inbox anymore cuz I've given it access to my all my emails and chat and all of that. So I ask it are there any important emails that I missed today? And it saves me the time to scroll through it. >> through it. Yeah. That's scary. It knows every word of every email. So what I'm I'm about we're just developing in the office is we to so it has access to well actually and and co-pilot. So we've just got co-pilot as well. So cuz I want co-pilot to be able to you know share in our office SharePoint uh OneDrive what yeah OneDrive um to be able to cuz it needs to know what we've done and what we've got so that it can build on it, right? So that that for us is quite important. So just getting that co-pilot integration where it can go into the folder and I can say like here all these things do X. Um that that is what we're doing next. I've never learned how to code. So on my But now you don't need to. No, what I now is what I need to learn how to vibe code, right? So I've got a video course that I'm about to start. Can I tell you from somebody who went through it recently? I don't know anything about coding or programming. I hired this guy recently who spends an hour or two with me every day. Yeah. And we were having these conversations and we started with Claude bot. Yeah. Uh So this is a little bit uh now it's called open Claude but This is a little I don't know scary because you kind of like host it on a tiny On this Mac Mini, right? >> Yeah. And you give it access to everything. Yeah, that. But the thing I realized about prompting is even on even when you use Claude code for the first time like how specific you are while you prompt is a skill set in itself which I don't have. So somebody said it really well. I was watching the interview of the guy who built Claude bot or open Claude now. He said it's like playing the piano. You can't expect somebody to sit in front of the piano and prompt for the very first time or give up when you try to play for the very first time and not try again. You need like a few lessons. >> Yeah. But it's not too many. I've done like maybe a month of lessons. That's about it. It feels like there is that point where you cross that line where you start to feel more comfortable with it, but I don't think it's week one. I think it's week three. >> Yeah. No, I think it would take some time. It'll go to week one soon. Yeah. Well, that would be good. But I that to me seems like an important new skill to develop. Yeah. Right? Now it is perfectly plausible that I should be able to create software that will do certain so many things that I do and I'm starting to figure out but I need someone to help me understand how do I think about all the things I do, which ones will lend themselves to being Yeah. basically dealt with and then learn how to get build the thing to do it. So that is my next thing to do. But the thing I should I mean you you do your thing as well but I I I'm we go back to education. That is the thing that I find it incredibly helpful. >> Transformative. It's transformative to be able to teach our kids. I'm not a good She's an excellent teacher. I'm not a good teacher. It's one one thing to know something. It's a different thing to be able to explain it and teach others. And but this is what I always thought with schooling and college. I didn't go. So I I mean it's natural that I take this perspective. But when you don't go to a formal institution, you can pick what books you want to read. Yeah. Yeah. Like structure takes that away and I feel like in many ways it's a disadvantage. Which is which is a disadvantage? >> Like going to a structured institution and being told what to read and how to read. >> depends on the personality I think a little bit but it's but now I think we're getting How self-motivated >> Not I wasn't even talking about motivation as much as like even between us you like more structure I like less structure. >> Yeah. Yeah, you respond better to >> So so I respond better when I don't have as many guardrails, right? But if the entire education system is evolving to be a place where you come in, you interact with peers but actually it's self-directed learning guided by AI. Yeah. Then there's a different way to learn and and it probably would have suited you and me better that way. But helping our kids with learning is as I feel like I that's what I did the other week and when you were away and and Oh yes. Yeah. And I but I've done that increasingly where I I haven't either got they had physics I don't have physics test couple of weeks ago. I haven't done any physics since I was 16 and I I didn't know off top of my head what she was doing but I popped the paper into Claude. It comes back with a question-by-question explanatory guide so I can then help her and then created a revision booklet at the end that I could then use the next day to help her prep for the test. I if that wasn't there, it would have been a right pain to try and do. So I and I saw that and then I see them in we see our kids we've encouraged them to use it but we've tried to say to them and supervise it. We say look it's not it's going to help you think. It can't do the thinking for you. It can explain things to you so you learn but you need to have done the thinking. Like so especially when they're young So like one discipline I have is I never use AI to write. Yeah. No. And it's old-fashioned. I get it. Pen and paper? No, meaning Type. I type. Yeah. Yeah. But I just I just can't do that. I just can't do it. And what do you write about now? Whatever I'm writing about, you know, I currently I'm involved in um arts and culture and doing some storytelling around uh um cultural institutions in the UK. I'm doing some work around um fashion entrepreneurship and business um I use I use Google for research. Yeah. But I'll tell you where I use I'm starting to think with AI. But I don't use Claude or anyone else to help me write though, right? Like the thesis of any argument I write myself. Um even the speeches etc. I write them all out. Um but what I've been fascinated is again as someone who's on the outside can AI be creative? And what then is even creativity, right? Uh for a long time in the early days of this whole evolution of AI uh people would say well AI can code faster than you solve mathematical problems etc. but it can't be creative. And so I'm I've been amazed how I can have philosophical discussions with Claude and it will come up with the most creative thoughtful answers. I mean amazing. What is creative in your view? Is it contrarian behavior that's creative? No, putting multiple thoughts together, right? Putting not just giving me a list of facts or kind of obvious answers. But pulling connecting the dots. Right. Pulling not facts but also even emotion. I would in a way in the new world define creativity by contrarian behavior more so than yesterday because a lot of these models are trained on data which always projects a certain path. Mm. Yes, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mm. Cuz they're trained on a stock of >> Yeah. knowledge and information. Yeah. So, yeah, this is the I guess the how will they be able to come up with something new? Yeah. You used to manage money before politics. >> Yes. Yeah. I used to be an investor. As a fund manager, I'm I'm guessing you researched a whole bunch of industries and stocks. >> Yeah. After becoming a politician, did you realize there's a information arbitrage that is still at play that makes one fund manager better than another? What did you believe as a fund manager that you became a politician and got access to everything and you were like, "This is stupid." Uh I You know, I didn't um I didn't ever think about it like that. The similarity I found between politics and fund management was this concept of the noise of the market. So, the investing I did was always fundamental long-term investing like Warren Buffett. And he has this a whole mantra about ignoring the short-term noise of the market and quarterly earnings and stuff like that. >> very well in the last decade, I would like to say. I haven't seen the numbers for a while, but over his career it's a pretty incredible track record. >> he did well when information arbitrage was more at play when I I saw that article. I saw someone had done that analysis. I haven't gone into it in detail. I mean, I always found him his letters, his approach to investing I'm a total devotee of the cycle of I've been to um you know, Omaha for the for the shareholder meeting etc. and um Uh so, I But the similarity was there is that you have the politics has got lots of the day-to-day noise, media, social media, this, that, and the other. And I always tried to helpful reminder from your investing days to focus on the long-term fundamentals of what of what you're doing. I found that quite a helpful analogy. On the information arbitrage, I didn't I you know, I don't know if that's You know, I didn't necessarily see that. I mean, I you know, it wasn't as if Clearly, if you're involved in making decisions in government, you have access to information, which is why you clearly should not be trading, right? I mean, that that should be illegal and is illegal. Um But beyond beyond that, I'm not sure. I saw because largely what's happening in the political process is >> [snorts] >> it's commented on, it's in the news, there's a million people talking about it. So, it's perfectly possible for people to figure out the dynamics of a policy as it's going through Parliament or something like that. That that was my general sense of it. Um but it it the other thing um from uh I the investing side of it is I mean, this thing about long run and short run. And I thought that was because it you know, you're trying cuz I what gave us or my I hope my type of investing an advantage was that focus on the long term, right? So, you could and if you had capital that allowed you to take a long-term view, you you know, you could ignore the short-term volatility of things confident that over time the fundamentals and the valuation would would align. I That was interesting cuz it it You saw what happened in the financial crisis and it I I I look at it and obviously you try and do the right thing in the long term, but really the short term Someone put it to me well. They said that you know, the long term is really just a succession of short terms that you either survived or were not kicked out of. Um And and actually I realized over time there isn't at least in politics, maybe it's more broadly in business, there's there's less of a kind of conflict between the short term and the long term. They're really just They all fit into a what kind of a nested time frame. And I think as long as your short-term actions need to be consistent with your long-term direction is is what you want. It's not that that you can't do things in the short term. It's just that your you know, your weekly rhythm has to align with your one-year plan, which aligns with your three-year strategy, with your five-year vision. Those things have to be consistent and have a consistency in and a connection to them. The problem is when you have this tension between short term and long term is when the the short-term goal or short-term thing you're doing is is misaligned with the long-term direction, but it's wrong to ignore the short term. And I the other analogy is You need to do the minimum to survive in the short term so that you can be around to benefit in the long term. So, in the financial sense, if you don't have the liquidity in the short term, then you might be right in the long term, but you'll be out of business, right? And so, you it's a in that financial sense, right? If you're leveraged or you don't have capital that is secure. And in politics, you you need to you know, I said you need to do enough in the short term to earn the right to be there over time. So, you can't just kind of head in the sand say, "Look, this will work out in 5 years. Come and see me then." You you need to be delivering enough things in the short term that are consistent with the long-run goal to kind of allow you to survive to make that long-run argument. So, I think in both cases, you have to recognize the the kind of connection between the short term and the long term. You can't exclude the short term and and just say I'm focused on the long term. >> You like chocolate? Yes. Okay. >> [laughter] >> I mean, I told you you can always count on Rishi to eat. I'm very full, but I will always make a bit of space for some chocolate. Will you ask Hariom chocolate for him? Okay, last part of today. I'm going to ask you both one question to finish it off. I don't know what the time is. What is the time? How are we doing? Oh gosh, 10:00. Oh wow. >> well. >> [laughter] >> It's been a few hours. >> Yes. Okay. Last part of today, one question to both of you. To Rishi, if you had to today after knowing Okay, let me preface this question by saying we spoke about you coming into the position of Prime Minister. How was it to lose that position? What did you learn from it? Same question for both or not? Yeah, okay. What's your question for her? >> [laughter] >> Okay, let me do Akshata first and we'll come back to Yeah, no. Yeah, yeah, fine. Okay. Somebody said in the end, civilizations perish because they listened to the politicians a lot more than they listened to their poets. Okay. Shall I go? You have time. >> [laughter] >> So, are you saying do I agree or disagree with this? Shall I Do you want me to go? I I don't I don't mind. Go. Go. Go. So, we've talked about failure a couple of times through this. You know, if failure in that way is very hard. Yeah. Right? When you lose an election, I mean, it's I I you know, it's hard because it is public. I mean, it's extremely public. It comes at the end of a very grueling, intense period of a campaign, which is pretty unforgiving. And because it's public, you're failing in front of your friends and your family. And and you have a lot of responsibility for the other members of your party, who as a result of that loss are no longer MPs. So, their livelihoods, their job, the thing that gives them purpose is gone. And in in many cases, that is not to do with the personal job that they have done. Thank you. You want dinner, chocolate dinner? Don't have that. That's just like a protein thing which is pretending to be healthy. That's your breakfast. Really chocolate. >> [laughter] >> Um You know, so it is you know, it is hard and it's you know, I'd be lying if I didn't say it wasn't hard. Um And it takes some time to uh you know, it takes some time to to recover from. But then, you know, what what you you know, for me, you know, what got me through that period including that bit was just remembering why I did it. I'm and you know, that weekend when we talked about it just before I became Prime Minister, that situation was very tough. Inflation was at a 10-year high. Um the the my party was 36 points behind in in the polls. There'd just been this leadership thing. And I if you were just motivated by ambition and about winning and losing and position, then you would never have taken the job in the first place. I I I did the job because I felt at that moment it was my duty. Because I was better placed to or I was well placed to make a difference in the country at a difficult time. And that's what we talked about that weekend. That's why I did it knowing that it was going to be very tough. And when that finality of the tough moment came, it wasn't that it was any you know, I Any easier in that job. >> any easier, but you know, with with the time you're able to remember why you did it. And >> you did it. And how you did >> and to be able to look at yourself in the mirror and say, "Look, I I you know, that was my dharma, and that was my job, that was my duty to do this, to do it to the best of my ability, and to focus on that." And as the Gita says, you you know, you don't enjoy the fruits and the outcomes, you focus on doing your duty. And that is what ultimately gave me the strength to go through it, and the strength to cope with the the failure after it. Um And then in the fullness of time, we talked about this as well. Uh it's important to draw the right stories from one's failure if you are going to grow from them. Cuz life is full of ups and downs in all walks of life. And you you've got to use the failures and the setbacks to grow. So and actually this helped me with this over time is is is looking back on that overall period and making sure that I'm able to take away the things that I need to learn from it, and not the whole thing, treat it as if I was some victim, and just be filled with self-pity. Cuz if that's how you feel, you won't take any good lessons from it, and you won't grow as a an individual. Um so that to me is how I got through it, how it felt, which was not easy for all those reasons. How I dealt with it, and then hopefully how you can turn it into something that actually helps you in life rather than than holds you back. Is it easy to go going back to be a corporate after all of this? Uh well, well, I'm still I'm still in Parliament, and so that is my my anchor, my foundation. It's where I get my fulfillment from week in, week out. It's actually it's enjoyable, you know, it's enjoyable being in Parliament and not being you know, the person at the dispatch box having to deal with the problem. Sometimes it's actually nice better to ask the question. I'm enjoying that um as well. Uh and In the future, is that what you will pursue, politics? >> Yeah, you know, as we talked about earlier, right? The the future, who knows which direction it's going to take us. >> Near future, yes? I mean, the near future, that's where I am. Yeah, I'm I'm I'm in Parliament and staying in Parliament, and you know, I've got as we said, hopefully another 20 years ahead of me, uh and so we'll we'll and for the first time in a long time, I don't have an immediate Yeah. thing that I'm gunning for. So we'll see where the future goes. But this goes back to the adaptability point we talked about. My own career is one where I've gone from finance and investing to politics and government. Now I'm spending more time in technology. I This ability to adapt, to learn, to grow, that that is the the key trait, right? And I don't know what the next chapter is going to be. It could be back to one of these, it could be something completely different, who knows. Um but you've just got to be able to keep learning and adapting. And it's not just learning about new things, but learning from your failures so that you can hopefully succeed to higher heights in on the next thing you do. Being curious about your failures. >> [laughter] >> Well, you know, that's the point is you I think it's important that the story that you tell yourself about why things didn't work is really important. And it's easy not to be curious enough about it, and to assume it yeah, as I said, you were the victim of circumstance, or you can you know, as I said, you have to be more balanced. >> Yeah, you have to allow the >> You can't say it's all my fault, but equally you can't say it's all someone else's fault, right? >> Otherwise you cannot engage again. Yeah, the middle path, yeah. You have to you have to do that. So that is how I've um Thank you. Well done. Before we go to Akshata Right. Okay. >> There's a brand called Subko, which this particular coffee bean is from Kerala, but there's a bunch from Karnataka, which I will send you. They make >> Just tell me the name, I will I will They make really good chocolates. So and they this is coffee bean, is it? Yeah, no, cacao. Cacao beans. Yeah, okay, got That one has walnut in it. That's walnut. And this is really dark. If you like dark chocolate. >> dark chocolate. Both lovely. Um So your question Poets, politicians, we listen more to our politicians than our poets, and it's a problem. Yeah, yeah. So uh prior to Rishi doing his um job at number 10, I would have probably said poets, because this is how I used to how I have defined poets in the past. >> Mhm. Idealists, emotional, emotionally driven um people who can move with words. Words are very important to me. You know, it's part of I I would say it's it's how I've grown up through reading and writing and being moved by words and storytelling. >> Indeed, they break the Stanford business school class into poets and quants. Really? I was a quant. Actually, I was a poet. >> [laughter] >> Yes. Um so I would have said poets. I'm not saying today I won't say poets. The answer's more nuanced today. It also depends on how you define a politician, right? You know, you you can take one definition as sort of people who say one thing, do something else, people who are inherently obsessed with power. Um Sadly, in some cases, there's corruption involved. There's all these negative connotations. But I I think and I know I'm married to Rishi, and um I'm biased. Of course I I agree with that, but I think there are people like you, Rish, who can do it with a great deal of integrity, and who can bring about that impact um at scale, and do it with integrity. And I think those people need those people are needed in the political world. And I I'm optimistic that we will find, and there already are, and there will be more people like that who will approach politics as their purpose, who will be driven by passion for impact, um and who will get their validation because they can change people's lives for the better, right? So So I think today I would say both poets and politicians. >> [laughter] >> That is a good encapsulation of our journey, cuz we've gone if you ask me, we it's what we learn from each other, right? And And actually we spoke about in the Stanford speech, it you know, when we first met, Akshata was very passionate about making a difference and saving the world. >> Incredibly idealistic. >> The And and I think one of the things that you got from from me was actually understanding that's all very well, having the idealism. How do you channel that into outcome? And actually it's through as we were talking, how do you bring about change? The political process in government is it's not the only way, but it's the way to do it at the biggest scale. Um And if you'd asked me, funnily enough, I have probably moved in the other direction [laughter] over time. All the things we've been talking about, when we were talking about, you know, what classes you should take at Stanford, and how I've changed my approach over time. I'd like I think I I need to become more poetic, >> [laughter] >> um probably. And it's the lesson I I uh I think if I if I the thing that I don't do enough of, Mhm. which I wish I did, and I wish I did over time, is is not reading poetry, but reading fiction. So I'm someone who just People like me, I think in general, but I read just non-fiction. Almost thing I'm always reading for a purpose, you know, it's um how do I get better at X? How do I learn more about Y? What can I take from this experience that I Storytelling for dummies. >> [laughter] >> Right. And And And if I try if I could have forced myself to read, I said, not not poetry, probably, but more fiction, cuz I think actually if you spend most of your life doing what I do, which is reading for purpose, but what's the actionable takeaway from what I'm reading, you know about what to do and how to do it. You're probably less good at understanding the why. Mhm. And as Akshata was talking about before, you're less good at understanding people. And what fiction gives you, it's not the actionable takeaway, but it's a much better understanding of of people, of humanity, of emotions. And of purpose. And of purpose. As And I And that's I as it's not poetry, but if I could have made myself read more fiction over time, that would have been a a good a good thing. And if I may say, this is the first time I've ever interviewed a couple. Oh, wow. Okay. >> couple that >> Oh, you're very sweet. No, that's very kind of you. I We've never done an interview this long, ever. >> Yeah. And together. Well, definitely not together, cuz >> Evil eye and all that. I saw you >> Didn't feel like an interview though, right? No, not an interview. I said it was a conversation. >> But but more than a conversation, it kind of a rumination. >> Yeah. Yeah. [clears throat] And so Yeah, we've never done We've never done anything like that. >> We've We've actually like I'm really intrigued by this point that we all came arrived at through that question around, how do you get a 28-year-old Mhm. who is to get into politics when they're also, rightly, looking for both purpose and validation. Yeah. And I was I think as you said so beautifully, that if you can s- get someone of that age to engage with just one policy that can impact so many people at such a young age. Like what is more motivating than that, right? I can tell And I learned that Rishi likes poetry, so next birthday gift taken [laughter] care of. I said I said fiction or let's not go too far. Like one step at a time. But thank you guys for doing this. This was so much fun. This has been awesome. Thanks and great food as well. I'm amazed that we we we kept eating [music] and talking. >> Yeah. Try this one as well. This one is the dark one. Okay. Next time you're both in Bangalore Yeah, let's do something. Yeah, we'll be there. We'll be there next time. >> time we're in Bombay we'd love to come into Founder. Yeah, 100%. We'll talk about that separately. I know that sounds super exciting. Super exciting. >> three-month course which is beginning next month. So I'd love for you guys to come take a couple of lectures if you guys have time. And if you only need They're all really bright kids and strangely enough so many of them are from Stanford and Yale and Wharton. A lot of them have given up college and come back for this. All right. Oh, okay. So there's still a They're enrolled still. I'm So they're taking a cultural off or something. It's so exciting. And and you know what? [music] I have always fought for the consumer sector because fundamentally I think you and I I think I'm motivated by the same things [music] within the business space which is consumer behavior, right? Why how do people behave? Why do they behave the way they do? Thereby what kind of actions [music] do they take? What are the market market dynamics that influence these actions? Um and I've [music] always said yes, you know, unlike B2B [music] companies, unlike SaaS companies, unlike potentially companies in the AI deep tech space you don't see [music] outcomes quickly. You don't uh get those same kinds of financial validation quickly. But actually if you stick at it, some [music] of these companies dramatically change people's lives for the better. Yeah. Um >> [music] >> and and I think it's fascinating. How how often are you going to plan on doing it, do you think? Is it once a year or >> once a year. Yeah, you know, it'd be tough to do more than once a year. Cuz it is quite intense, right? 20 companies that get created. So once a year is good enough. Yeah, and it's a it's [music] quite three months and that's kind of one cohort. And you have one person leading it and then you have guest lectures coming [music] in or Uh there's a bunch of people leading it. Have you heard of this man called Kishore Biyani? >> Yes. Yeah, so he's [music] leading it. You know, Ronnie Screwvala. >> Yes, I know of him. Yeah. Yeah, they're they're all living there. Like I came back early today to do this, but they're all still there. Yeah, yeah. Having a good time. >> [laughter] >> I don't know about good time. Last night was 3:00 a.m. and they needed to really make a decision on some candidates. So they were like these young kids being woken up at 2:00 a.m. It's really like pushing them beyond the normal. But I'm sure in time they will appreciate that. [music] In time. >> [laughter] >> When they're when they're listing, ringing the bell, and you know, it will all have been worth while. >> I mean for a separate conversation, Nikhil, but one of the things I'm thinking about is cuz I'm a trustee of [music] the V&A Museum in London in London. And the V&A is their um focus is on creativity. [music] They're called the Museum of Creativity. And so what we're thinking is how do we how can museums >> [music] >> add value to the creative economy? Not just [music] come in and see some old things and marvel, but how can museums add active [music] value and work with the creative economy? Um So it'd be fascinating to have a conversation >> [music] >> around that at some point.