# The $11B Bet That Voice Will Replace Everything | Mati Staniszewski x Nikhil Kamath | WTF Online

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ef3D5Ak1HP4

**Video ID:** ef3D5Ak1HP4

**Upload Date:** None

---

## Transcript

[music] How many times have you this is your uh how many times? >> Fifth time. >> Fifth time. >> Yeah. >> But I never for podcast always for my fintech company. >> Of course. Yeah. >> Are you in India? >> We are. >> Yeah. >> We have uh I think it's between 10 and 15. I think it's 14 people now. If there if we count the new people that are joining or joined. >> And which city? Mostly Bengaluru and few close to Mumbai. >> I'm from Bengaluru. >> Oh, are you do you b are you based there or you are partly >> based there? >> Where's [music] the other part? >> Uh Mumbai and Goa. >> Okay. [music] >> What do you think the opportunity is? What can one build in voice that can [music] be a big profitable business tomorrow? [music] >> [music] >> You're based out of which city now, Matthew? >> From London, >> right? From London. Do you know Carl the nothing guy? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. >> Yeah. We're investors of his. >> Oh, no way. >> Yeah. >> I'm a tiny investor, too. >> Really? >> Yeah. >> What do you think? >> Well, I you know, it's so hard to innovate in hardware and Carl is one of the very few that is actually doing both innovating and got to good scale. Um, which is so hard. Um, and I think he he's like thinking around design and how there will be a combination of AI native devices and maybe they all take slightly different forms. Yeah, I think there's a great chance for for nothing. What do you think? >> Uh, so we engaged recently actually. We got on their cap table. I like KHL. I like Khal a lot. I feel like it's a new guy who's trying something new. Uh, the sales look great. Uh, I think they went from 500 mil last year to about 900 mil this year. Uh, but it's such a tough space, right? Hardware >> so tough. But it's, you know, I I'm also excited. You know, maybe that's a little bit biased, but he he can lead with voice in many ways. You know, the the nothing headphones I think are great >> and they are actually one of the first ones to start integrating like AI assisted part of the of the experience. So, you could speak with the headphones, you could personalize music >> out yet, [clears throat] right? They're testing few things in alpha, but if they if they um you know, if they move quickly, I think this could be like the first >> truly AI native [clears throat] device that's kind of with you around you. >> Um and I mean that opens so many opportunities. I'm frequently speaking with Carl of uh um how like in the ideal future you could potentially speak any language and it automatically gets real time translated to any other language around you. So we can communicate and and travel travel around um break down the language barriers. But the main part that's going to be blocking it is going to be the hardware or like what's the what's the device to make this possible even if the technology exists. >> And if Carl does well with nothing could be the device that actually makes and breaks that where everybody can can have that device. >> I hope it is like after this I'm actually going to London. I'm going to see Carl. Their design studio is there. I'd seen the uh the earbuds the previous version but if it's able to translate without a latency issue and if it's able to you you know that device you wear like a pendant what is it called? the the one that uh the they folded or the there's there's like a few but uh >> there was the humane I think >> but that didn't I think this was acquired >> but there's yeah there's like re re >> retranscribe or something like that the one that like takes notes and summarizes afterwards. >> Yeah, if the earpod could do all of that like his earbuds if they do that they translate they do a bunch of other things. The thing nothing also has going for it I think is it's cool uh because a young person runs the company so hopefully they do well >> and they are trying some different things. I also I would like that you know Panda this is maybe slightly slightly off topic but um frequently I mean as a company now we will attend a lot of events >> we'll have a lot of people in those events >> and of course after the events we are now trying to figure out how to take a lot of the follow-ups action points so we created a little voice agent that you can speak with and um and capture out of the feedback um so that already kind of helped shorten the loop so you don't have to manually input everything after the meeting you and speak of voice agent. But the ideal version assuming people opt in and this is the the kind of safe environment would be to have a pendant. You go to a meeting, everybody knows that the notes will be transcribed and then you can engage in those events in the conversations and then straight after at the end of the day you get like what happened, what are the follow-ups. Um we are we are working with now one startup that I hope will um will do it in a good way where we could deploy it in our in our next summit where everybody across across the team could of course with the knowledge of the participants take the notes not need to worry about all the notes afterwards I think how amazing would that be >> yeah what is it called the startup >> I don't know if I can say the name yet because they are like they are in a stealth mode and they want to announce it and you know we are trying to figure out a partnership But there are like a few companies the you know the the form factor does matter like you don't want the pendant to be too big. You want it of course to have a pretty pretty good support. Um of course battery and >> um and and and I I like feels like it should exist. >> Yeah. Everyone I speak to in AI uh and I've interviewed a bunch of them largely in the valley. It's refreshing that you're in a different region. They all say voice could be next. Voice is likely next. Voice is a natural way to communicate that we are accustomed to. [snorts] But nobody seems to have cracked it yet. Uh do you think the medium of interacting with tech will move from hardware which does feel unnatural to hold a thing in your hand and like type into it with your fingers. How does that transition from that kind of hardware to voice happen? Yeah, the you know like as as we think about the future 100% voice will be a big interface and big way of how we interact with the technology around us. That's as we think about 11 Lab's mission. It's to transform how we interact with technology around u holistically and whether that's you know calling into customer support whether that's how you will learn uh at school and how you'll deliver education all the way through to how you interact with the robots or devices around you in the future. Um, and kind to your last part, like I think the most exciting part of that is like could you have the technology kind of fold into the background, the phone goes back into the pocket and you kind of immerse yourself in the in the in the in the world around you. Um, so I think there's like to make this possible, there's at least three things that need to happen. One is of course the foundational technology and research. It needs to get to the level where where you feel like you're interacting with a voice of the level of of of a human. It's it's you can interact. You can interrupt it. It has the right emotions, inonation. It's quick. Um it has the high intelligence. And I think the current model is is good for set of um set of use cases. It's not yet like a full human level. Um so that's the kind of the first component that needs to change on the on like >> that needs to be true otherwise people will not want to have voice agents around everywhere around you. Um like you have Jarvis and Iron Man and this kind of level of quality that's ideally where you kind of get to uh where is both great voice and and and kind of gets all the knowledge and gets all the combination. So that's the first thing. >> So the voice voice quality and interaction needs to be great. Um, second, and that goes a little bit to to the challenges of deploying that in different in different settings, is it's of course important that the voice is good, but it's also important that it has the knowledge access. Um, and as like we think about the the the development in the future, as we think about our role in our development, increasingly there's a an important combination of of allowing customers, allowing users to bring that knowledge in an easy way, whether that's the integrations with their with their systems, whether that's figuring out how you can deploy um the voice agent and and WhatsApp and different devices that customers or people will interact with. Um, but ultimately like how do you bring all the knowledge ahead? How do you have the memory of things that that happened in the past whether that's what you what you are interested in what you know um if you are a business customer taking the CRM data and pulling that in so you have all that information so that would be my second one so that's the the and third one uh which we kind of started the conversation from is the is the form factor which I don't think is has been figured out like now we have all the components for voice agent to be there and understand you how do you deploy it my take is it's like you know frequently a conversation is is it glasses, is it phone? Uh is it headphones? And it's probably the the the kind of the uh the least interesting one, but I think it's will be a combination of of of the form factors. Some people will definitely prefer glasses, some people will prefer the headphones in the future. Maybe neural link is version of that part where you kind of start and you always have voice agent available to you. Um, I'm excited for the headphones, but not the headphones that um that are in ear, but effectively the ones that are behind the ear, >> right? >> Um, where you still get the same voice experience. >> Um, and now there's set of innovations to try to effectively detect your without you actually saying the spoken word, detecting your mouth movements. So, you could theoretically imagine speaking with the voice agent without vocalizing it out loud and having that support. Um, so like if I wear like as a user, so from personal perspective, I would be most likely to adopt the headphones in the future. >> Um, and then I do think it most likely will be the most natural form factor given it's already one of the one of the key devices. Um, and that kind of shifts that that interface, you know, in >> say headphones with a phone in your pocket, a combination of the two. >> Yes. And probably a some, you know, because you also need the capture of the information. That's where that kind of the knowledge part will come start coming in. I I do think there will be some version of a of a pendant or a wristband that you will that you will carry to just >> headphones do that. >> They could but then you have you have limited set of information like you don't have the same um like say over time you will want something about the movement or something about how you um how you capture a different perspective and I think that's where that will be that will be viable. Do you have can you measure a guess on what uh Johnny Ivan and Sam are building in terms of device? >> Uh the um I heard few few guesses. I would love to ask you the same question. What's your guess? >> I asked Sam actually. >> What did he say? >> He didn't say. >> Okay. [laughter] Yeah. My guess my guess would be huh I don't know if you were maybe maybe if you were guessing >> from what you know what's what's your guess >> on Sam and Johnny Ives? Yes, >> I feel like for revenue and to really scale because human behavior is so accustomed to using a device in your hand. Uh I think that's where scale scale lies initially. So I wouldn't be surprised if it's a phone looking device with a UI which is not natively Android or anything that already exists but something which is a lot more different with a partner with a buddy device maybe which is like a pendant or something like that >> because they don't have a hardware play. I feel like for AI at uh some point it'll become relevant that hardware comes pre-installed and with the software which is AI first and to be in hardware for all of these AI companies will become increasingly relevant. Hence actually they're nothing bet because I always thought a AI company will come in and uh buy them out at some point. >> They can still I it's it's still possible. Uh it's it feels but but in general like I think OpenAI has a has a good path to building like a personal assistant that's next to you. >> Mhm. >> So it will need to be some device that you carry of course every every every day. Um I do think voice will be a big part for that strategy as well. >> Um from what I see and hear they will be ramping out the voice efforts. So it will be good good competition for us to see whether our quality keeps keeps ahead as it does today. So that will be a good good test. >> It must worry you right like I always wonder about OpenAI. All these people use the backbone of OpenAI and they build something and then given enough time OpenAI sees it and then they want to build the same thing themselves. They seem to have done that in a couple of places. Um when I talk to friends of mine in the agentic layer of AI or people who have built great applications on top of a model uh they all seem to be scared of what happens to these large language models when they come after the end product. Are you worried about that? you know like in a in in our case we are of course continuously looking what like open AAI Google incredible teams and probably like as we think about the space the the the biggest potentials of uh of of of effectively competing with 11 Labs as you think about the company and I only started it in 2022 like the approach from the beginning was doing both the research and the product so doing the foundational model work for for audio and then building product around it and we think both are important um and like would define a company where we today of course don't depend on open AI for for for voice and and we can stay ahead and build models that are both great in English great internationally great across India languages great across European languages and um and that's both for generating speech with text to speech understanding speech with speech to text and um and that's important I think like over the next two three years there's still so much you can do in voice and like we spoke about how you make it more fluid and interactive. I think that still can be cracked in a better way. So of course worries us whether we continue being ahead but it's also a good motivation. We have my my co-founder is one of the smartest people. He's been able to assemble an incredible research team and um and they keep crushing it. So >> I think they will they will they will continue proving that we can be ahead. But then [snorts] 100% you know we cannot just rely on research. we need to have more um both defense points but also how we deliver value effectively to get customers. So it's kind of independent of the research work. And here from our perspective we have kind of two main things. One is um we have a creative platform offering and then an agents platform offering. Creative platform is helping with narrations, voiceovers, localization um from individuals. So from creators uh podcasters um news articles uh through to some media entertainment companies like Star and then on agents we help automate voice agents and in in and customer experience training education. So um Misha would be a great example. >> Can you can you describe to us what 11 Labs does overall like in a in a simplified manner that anybody could understand? >> We built foundational audio AI technology. So we built models to make speech sound incredible and speech be understood. Um and then we built products on top of that research that help you create voice agents that can elevate your customer experience that can um elevate um and and train people internally or externally. And then we help on the creative side with customers uh um um um and how they can communicate with with the user base. So 50% of your business is creator and 50% is enterprise in a way. >> That's right. >> And say I'm a creator. How do I use 11 labs? >> The let's take this podcast as an example. >> Yeah. >> The you know after after we we we we've finalized our conversation something might have not been recorded. You want to add a line. >> You can postprocess that with 11 laps. make sure that we effectively recreate my voice. We smoothen that line out. >> That's a very simple part. Then let's take a second step. You want to take this podcast and you want to localize it outside of English. You want to bring it to Spanish or French or Hindi. Um and here you go to our interface and you can both automatically dab the entire podcast and then go through any corrections that you need. So when we did a podcast um with between Lex Freiedman and Prime Minister Narendrai that was effectively you going through that workflow. >> Did you dub that? >> Yeah. >> And that was like going through then human on the loop making sure the corrections are there and that was like a both like an like incredible test of the of the software but then you can enjoy that in in a number of other languages. How much does it cost? Say for example, how much did Lex and our prime minister, how much did it cost to dub? >> You know, this one was harder in in in general, like if you just wanted to automatically dub, then like an hour podcast will be few dollars, up to few dollars. >> Um, but with with any conversation like like the one with the prime minister, we did employ a wider set of of people that would actually check every translation. um uh mostly with working with the Lex team and the other side of the team to to make sure that the content is preserved like we we you we know it's like the cal caliber of the conversation with every word matters. So that was like a maybe a more unique on that side. >> Like we have this use case. We want to dub all the content we make into like regional languages but we've been struggling with solutions really. Uh more than the cost of it. I feel like the emotion behind what is being said is always lost and everything sounds a bit robotic. How do you change that? I've not tried 11 laps >> then. Perfect. It's like almost a cue to to show you. No, I think I think that's like one of the big parts that I think we we now can bring to the to the equation that was lost like how do you both preserve the voice, preserve inonation, preserve emotion. Um, and the way you know we do it today is we we of course detect your speech. We then uh detect the speakers, we we translate it, but then the moment we generate a speech, it actually captures the contextual information from the previous response and um and tries to recreate that in a in a new target language. Like effectively our model the way we've we created that for the localization use case has been trying to match pairs of languages that that that we have and how would you deliver that in a in a professional setting and how you can reapply that in the in the automatic dub. Um so I think it works really well. Um the the the hard things is like you know of course when you have like amplitude of emotions like laughter scream and you then shift the ordering of the sentence then it's hard >> like say for example Matty is smiling while you're saying a certain thing Matty is the right way to say it >> yeah yeah when you smile when you say a certain thing in English >> isn't it hard to take that emotion into Hindi for example >> the um it's um you know it's it's not easy 100% % um and then there's like kind of two like there's the present and the future in the current way you would still translate it you would of course dab it I think you can preserve the emotion but of course my movement of my lips when I smile will you that >> depending on the language structure um it might be in a different part of the sentence so like maybe an easy example is German from English to German usually we have noun at the end so like yes that will exactly happen you will like smile at a different part than the conversation. You can do some tricks >> to to try to to um to still smoothen it out. Um but yes, there will be some discrepancy. So that's that's in present can still work in the future, you know, and and there are some limitations of the current delivery softwares. You'll likely do lip animation to or lip reanimation to move the lips tiny bit to apply to where where you would smile in that part of the sentence. So I think that will happen 100%. I hope this happens this year. >> Is that something you would do? >> We would want to do it. I think like as we think about anything that can amplify the audio experience, we want to bring that into our our our flow. So on that creative side like today, if you were to localize hopefully in the next few months, you will be able to um animate lips straight away as well. Could a tiny company be built just around this? Just around changing how the lip moves when something is being dubbed? >> It could. There's there's actually good set of companies that are like crushing it and going very quickly. You know, of course, I think this is an entry point, not the end point. Mhm. >> They will likely try to to add more of that functionality. But but uh but 100% you know it's like and the the of course now we speak about the static part >> but the moment you start moving into the real time part those tiny companies now can be huge companies and that's kind of like you know we spoke about the creative side. If you think about the the the agent side and I think there are some use cases here for for for for both the lip animation and even for for for your for you. Um uh uh I have a I have one idea for you. Um so you know we spoke about the creative side on the agent side. Effectively what we do is is is allow you to create a voice experience, bring any knowledge that that that you want inside of that experience um and um and then deploy that in in in different settings um while monitoring evaluating how it performs. I don't know if you're familiar with masterclass. >> Yeah. >> So MasterClass works with us where they would recreate um and work with people like Gordon Ramsey to create AI Gordon Ramsey that teaches you how to cook while you cook. uh the top FBI negotiation negotiator Chris Boss. It's part of the ecosystem. You can negotiate and learn negotiating by negotiating with Chris Boss. So you could do your master class based on a lot of your existing content, existing work that you already did and and and and spoken about, word about and actually create a um a Nick Hill that you can speak with and learn about bootstrapping a $3 billion company and uh and and how to achieve that kind of impact and scale and bring >> where would that agent sit? How would somebody find him? you know we work with all types of customers um but if you are an individual you probably would start your own company >> like we actually have 500 companies that build voice uh voice agent variations just in India >> and then uh now I think over 10,000 across across the world that that usually they would create their own website delivery but the the most common now that's kind of shifting is um is you you have a phone number that you call and then the voice agent answers so um >> do you think there's a market for that. If there's an agentic version of myself which has learned from everything I have ever said, all the stupid things and it speaks like me, do you think somebody will seek it out to interact with it? >> I think it so quick answer is yes. um I don't think it's you know like it replaces the experience but there's um there's like how do you go deeply into the subject that interests you and that's what your agent would allow like I have few questions this is what I know this is what I don't know you've you have that kind of wider set of knowledge that you delivered over the years how do you deliver that efficiently you can you can you can grab to the specific parts that I'm interested in and um and I think that would be to would be valuable but And of course at some point there's like okay now I actually want to speak with the real person to go deeper because that wasn't in a knowledge base or wasn't um it wasn't something that that I could ask about. So I think the kind of shifts the part of um of the conversation but not the entirety of the conversation. You know it's I don't know if it's exactly the same but um on the business side we we one of the the like many startups mention this use case. I don't think it's like fully AI automatable but AI SDR version of like learning about the product, learning about the use case, learning about the the company and we've seen this um play out in in few cases where here too the best way to deploy AISDRs is is more as a augmentation of the flow where you can let's say you you have a website um you want to capture the sales leads um the sales leads come through they usually will leave their details else in the form. And now instead of replacing the whole experience, you can add effectively a voice agent saying, "Hey, do you want to accelerate your application um uh by by speaking with a voice agent and then you can you can go ahead and and and click through uh and then you are more willing and and and so so we've done exactly that flow for 11s. And then what you notice is that both it improves the number of people that are keen to leave things in a forum but second they actually leave a lot more details and then the moment they go to the next conversation they know much more about the product they are more ready we can go after um and and with those customers much quicker. Um so similarly as you think about your kind of delivery of knowledge I do think this would both make people more excited about about about learning and going deeper but then the second time you have the conversation I think the the quality of questions would be better. We actually did it with um a company in India called TVS motor. >> Yeah. >> Uh and they they've done exactly that flow and it improved both sides. It improved the customer satisfaction and improved the sales uh uh lead qualification. So it's like both sides were happy. Right. We were doing a bit of research on the market size of voice overall. The dubbing is a small market, right? It said less than a billion going up to 3 billion in the next decade. >> You know, dubbing is is like the interactive use case is the biggest market. I mean that's everywhere from you know from media education through from through >> that could be a really big market in the next 5 years. >> That's yes that I think that will shift everything. So a lot of the audience that we speak to are young wannabe entrepreneurs. What do you think the opportunity is? What can one build in voice that can be a big profitable business tomorrow? >> From my perspective, the the most clear entry point is combining a domain expertise in one of the one of the domains that you you know well you want to know well and learn quickly. Um and it can be a domain where where there's like no innovation and these are like almost the best ones. >> Can you give me an example? >> Automotive industry, healthcare. I mean it's like truly I think it's like the more traditional domain the likely more lagging it is with the innovation. Um where we are seeing already entrepreneurs building for automotive industry of use cases. Um but effectively here you know whether it's um uh how it's like from the simple use case of how you innovate on customer experience to like what is the incar experience look like in the future so much opportunity to figure out how do you deliver the right knowledge how do you write the right interaction and how you deploy it >> but can I build a company just around that >> yes yes and it's like you know like >> let's take the example of a car company say BMW what What do I build that they will pay me enough for that I can have a company invoice? >> You would start probably with something that's top of mind and and something that is easy to deploy. So here you would start with customer experience side. So just being able to help as people call in how do they get the best service understanding everything about BMW in this case how they understand about how the car works. you you spend a lot of time um bringing that into the equation. So that's kind of the first layer. Then in car experience is like pretty open-ended, but how do you create an interactive radio inside of the car that people can can interact with um across all the time? And here too, you need to figure out [snorts] what type of languages might BMW might be interested in. How do you create the right voices to make sure the users in those regions are excited and happy? um what type of experience will BMW actually need? So there's a lot of actually deployment work that would come in and then [snorts] as you build all those steps you need to figure out okay if you are to build like a a big company not only how I build it once for BMW but how I abstract it away to to be able to replicate that into the other car companies. Um so you need to capture some of those knowledge elements back into into into other into other car uh parts. Automotive industry is is a good example where like haven't seen as much yet because it's it's hard with some of the ondevice requirements like some that already are getting disrupted are e-commerce, healthcare, financial services like healthcare is a easy example where you just need so much specific domain knowledge to be able to to cut to that. Both the data is very different. So capturing all the all the medicine names uh all all the flows that might need to happen for the patients that you interact with to make sure that they get the right experience. >> That's like it's hard >> and then you need to go to the hospitals speak with the hospitals on how that to deploy that whether it's in the operating space or whether it's in the in the in the in the in the support space outside of the uh in hospital operation. So that's that's the one that's already pretty pretty heavily going across. Um e-commerce, I mean recently you had IPO of Misho that that we work with. Incredible company. >> What do you do for Misho? >> So we help automate their customer customer experience, customer support. So they have now 60,000 calls coming in um to to to ask about the products, ask about shipping refund and and h the in English and and we help we create a voice agent that you can interact with. But a very cool thing with Misho is that now you know so the support is there like what's the future of e-commerce? Could you have an AI concierge the moment you go into the website that you open a website, you have a voice agent that tells you about the products available, you tell it what you're looking for, then shows you different products, you decide which ones you are interested in, and then you order that. Like having an assistant as part of experience would be would be incredible. Um, so here too like I think an e-commerce going slightly deeper on like what type of e-commerce similar. I think I think companies combining the domain knowledge and and and building quickly the voice agents will will will be huge. >> Actually, you should help us build a agent of our own could be fun as a project. >> What will be the agent? >> Like we'll feed in all the things we have said up until now and have somebody talk to people who are lonely and just see how the project goes [laughter] just as a fun project. I speak to a AI agent all the time. I think the a big use case in the world tomorrow will be to solve for loneliness you know for intimacy. >> It's I like I think voice agree I think there will be a big part there. It's going to be a big balance of figuring out how it's like not uh you know you you you you kind of help with the virtual side but like kind of try to bring people into the real world too which is which will be a like an important balance like the one the most exciting one for me is education like how will the education like could you have a personal tutor across subjects for everyone like I love Richard Fayman could I have Richard Fayman teach me physics and uh and Um uh and like kind of both the style of delivery is so cool. Like he's kind of combining the knowledge and the and the laughter. And then I have it all like I'm I'm learning maths and I'm I'm I can ask any question to to to Richard. That'll be that would be amazing. >> What's even more interesting is if I have a device in my ear which negates the need for me to have to regurgitate any kind of information. what happens to education then I don't need to learn or remember much of what traditional education needs for me to remember. >> Yeah. You almost like I don't know how um how how [clears throat] you would see this but like the way I think back at at at at kind of my education like I kind of I rarely use any of the formal background mathematics. I almost never use that knowledge but like the the most valuable part was kind of learning how to learn. So I hope there's like still that component that education brings. And then of course the second part of education it's going to be like almost the opposite of tech which is how do you learn how to how to be with other people how you like be social. So like you have like I feel in the future of education you'll have like percentage of the time which is like fully dedicated to learning with AI and tools and then percentage of the time where there's like no tech and no no um no um no technology just like speaking with other people being close to them figuring out that part. The percentage of both will be interesting like with AI can I now be more efficient so I just need like 20 30% of the on the former and 70% on the latter uh or or or or no versus yeah versus like a fully augmented version throughout. As somebody not in the valley, uh my day job as a investor, what do you think of you've raised a lot of money yourself, I think like 300400 million, your company's worth a few billions today. What do you think of AI valuations in the valley today? these huge uh companies with a revenue number that doesn't historically warrant the market cap numbers that they have. Do you feel like there's a bubble brewing there? >> And did you say you you invest into companies not in Silicon Valley or you said that you invest in companies in Silicon Valley? >> Some in Silicon Valley but largely companies out of uh India. >> That's what I thought. And and first of all, I think that's great. It's like similarly as we think like it's so cool to see more companies and in India like we care so much about companies brewing and I'm from Poland in Poland in in in UK of course. Um so and like as we think about our team today most of the research engineering is from Europe and they are like some of the most motivated passionate people about the space. like hopefully a lot more of that innovation comes across from from Asia, from Europe, internationally for the global companies. Um [snorts] I think the the valuations in Silicon Valley, you know, like I don't think that the the bubble is brewing. I think there's like what what I think is a very different part as I compare it to to to other cycles. I think there's a clear value clear revenue numbers for a lot of the the companies. I do you know there are some pockets where I'm like a little bit skeptic of like does it make sense you know not to just like to maybe give a concrete example is all the like GPU providers um that are built on top of Nvidia that like help you get uh effectively inference um uh um capacity like I'm a little bit skeptic on some of the valuations there but you know like for a lot of others it's very clear it's like high risk high reward type thing um so I understand their bets but they are probably higher risk and higher higher reward. I do think AI is is in this in this in this trickier space where um where if you win you can win in a in a significant way in a significant impactful way like will work with a lot of customers around the world if you are a good company. Um so I kind of understand why like in the early stages of the companies companies get such a high valuation. I mean I'm sure you are referring also to a lot of the research companies being formed here. here. It's like almost the way I kind of see it is there's like um like research is still so incredibly important and will be that um that that like that multiple still makes sense like you you those people like if they invent one incredible thing it's already worth it. Um well but I hope I hope companies around the world will get the same valuations soon and we like if they build globally they should. >> Yeah. The way I'm looking at it with all the geopolitical stuff going on, if I were to wager a guess, I would think at some point in the future, we will all live in a more multi-olar world where we individually countries go down the path of Russia and China where most large countries have their versions, their own little version of these products which have global reach Okay. So different countries will have their own social media. They'll have their own voice companies. They'll have their own um uh most interactions with technology even their own data centers a country's data I think will sit in that country. So I feel like when that happens in the world these companies which have large scale today like you know take a WhatsApp which is a chatting service I don't think it is a unique enough of a product that can't be disrupted or I will make the switch from a WhatsApp to another chatting service given a very small incentive. I think the the reasons for Indians to use WhatsApp might go away uh when the world becomes more geopolitically confused and I feel like it's going in that direction. >> Don't you think let's take WhatsApp there's like a network effect of just so many users already using WhatsApp where it just convenience of being on the same platform. I would have thought that but when I look at what's happening in China and Russia and they have their own versions it seems to be just fine. Uh and also in a way when there is evidence of these global tools being weaponized by governments in one way or another uh I think the world will be a lot more skeptical in using a product just for the network benefit. You know what I mean? >> I I do I do know what you mean. Although I do I do disagree. I think it's all partly disagree. I like I agree data residency yes 100% should be in a in a specific countries also agree that like the the the the sorry the product shape uh will will like kind of evolve. So like every country will use their own own proprietary data to create their variations of the product. But my like you know I don't know if that's optimist or or like the the the kind of the value part but I do think there's like a global component of of a lot of infrastructure or software still being international like let's take building foundational AI models. I think the the kind of the the base will be pre-trained by >> few companies in the world just given the resources required. there'll be open source um um um um of course um offerings in that in that bucket but then probably must think about the government space or companies in the sectors they will use those to fine-tune it based on their data and it's still huge advantages >> uh but just uh just not like entirely built into independently um on the product there's a very I mean interesting interesting that you think >> I I can see like how creating software is becoming so easy that you could like imagine creating that on the on the by everywhere. I just I just think the network effect of having people on the same place >> is compounding in many ways. >> Mhm. >> Um like almost like as you know like as I think about um [clears throat] it's not the same but in in our case we have a voice marketplace in 11 apps where people create a voice they can we authenticate it then we can share it and then the moment the the AI voice is used you earn money. Now we have 10,000 voices created this way. Um, and we paid back over $11 million coincidentally back to that community. Um, and it definitely helps. You have like so much styles, accents, and it's a, you know, of course you could replicate at scale, but you won't have that same community mechanism of paying back and making sure people can trust that software. So I do think there's some element of trust um that that is embedded. So maybe network and trust but you know I guess what you are saying partly is with what happens with the geopolitics side is like the trust element may be broken and you kind of need the alternative for >> it seems to be breaking right >> I hope I hope it's you know it's a temporary glitch but it's like more like it's not um it's not going down it's more like sin x curve and it's continue going up and and and and it's yeah it's it's just like a little bit of a correction. Yeah, I mean I watched a bunch of these people speak over the last week and you know even when they walk out of the room it could be the European leadership or the American leadership people don't look happy people look like they're angrier than they were last year for example or the year before. Every year people are progressively angrier and it seems like they're voicing it for the first time. you know people walk out and speak in their own languages. Most of it you can't understand but you can see the expression on their face in a way. I think >> I do think people became more authentic in like last year too last year too. Maybe it's like in a version of like there's just so much AI content and and things that like you need to be authentic to to to to like break through that noise of AI. But um I feel you know in in less on the politics side or geopolitics side because I agree that's like that has definitely influenced the emotions um and I'm probably a little bit too much in that bubble of of AI and tech but huge huge positivity compared to last year or two of like shift from how much of the risk it pos like how much of the risk AI can mean but increasingly into also how much opportunity AI can can give Um but of course it's such a such a tricky week with geopolitics this week. So >> I think no one's contesting that productivity will go up in societies. I think everybody's aligned to that. Uh the only question is should you be people with most risk capital will have the best models by virtue of how much money they pump into those models. But if these large model companies are going to cannibalize the end product if you build on top of them, I think for a young entrepreneur, it's important not to be shortsighted and kind of like diversify and hedge what they build on top of. uh not it's not a it's not the right analogy but not end up in a world where an Android or an Apple can charge you 20% fee to live on that platform but use more open-sourced versions and diversify that risk I think is important today >> I agree that like you know you need to take like a longer term view and it's like the the the starting point cannot prevent you from being in that in that in that long term So you know if you if you if you can accelerate your value delivery by building on any of the platforms it's fine but if if there if you think you know as an entrepreneur if you think that any of those platforms might take over your space in next few years um then yeah then you need to be >> because these platforms have to make money somewhere tomorrow. I saw OpenAI is experimenting with ads for the first time. But to justify those valuations and to stop burning money, they have to make money. >> They do. It's like almost the, you know, the um like Google will have so much advantage by >> potentially running longer with all the infrastructure and not doing ads in the same way. >> Yeah. >> Um so we'll be we'll be Yeah, it's it will be an interesting one. But I I like you know like a company's built on top of a lamps voice visual. I think that the domain domain combination like if you know domain extremely well then >> the AI model this you know gives you a good starting point but then integrations with the system the legacy systems of how you deliver that telefony um how you bring the knowledge that will take so much time then like building the trust with evaluations monitoring that will take a lot of time um so I think there's like so much opportunity for entrepreneurs to just take any of those models >> go deeply into the domain and combine both best of We've been flirting with the idea of building a social media platform in India. How do you think >> on Zeroda or separately? >> Separately. Uh Zeroda is more like fintech, asset management, broking. Uh >> but you could do like a super app effectively as you know it's a >> you know super apps have never worked in India. A lot of people have tried it actually outside of China. They've not worked anywhere. Right. Really? >> Yeah. I I'd say I'm wondering whether in uh Yeah. Do you think that has something to do with, >> you know, I have an example where it did work which is like an interesting one. >> The the um in Ukraine they have a super app which I think is brilliant. >> Um uh uh also we have a pleasure of working with with their government and where they're trying to create the first agent government but the the they have a DIA app. It's effectively a citizen support app where you can ask about the the benefits programs, employments program, the the the different different the um things that are happening in India. Um and that's how it started. So like effectively an app that every citizen can have uh of course the passport information um visa information etc that you can travel and ID yourself with. But then they have multiple um ministries and the way they operate. Um so they have multiple ministries where you have tech resources embedded in those ministries. So foreign affairs will have a few engineers working there. >> Internal affairs will have that. Education ministry will have that. And now those people try to figure out how to automate part of of of of the government work and then then bring it back to the digital transformation ministry. Mhm. >> Um which is responsible for the citizen support app. And now what has started happening is that started effectively adding modules across the entire government. So now you can have healthcare information. Now you can have education where you have personalized content for you based on things that you know and and I thought it was brilliant. It's and what we do with them is now help bring the voice into the equation. So you can communicate and call a lot of that or you could learn by speaking. uh but you literally have the all the modules deployed across the government services and I I thought it was brilliant for two reasons. One is like that you would embed those resources like in the AI world it feels so right that's that's that's like as I think about young entrepreneurs building their companies like you want of course engineering talent but you want the engineering talent in in sales and go to market and in and in in in in finance and in like all divisions because it can help get smarter. Um, so I liked it for that. And two, despite everything that's happening there, they are actually kind of truly from everybody worked with leading the way of like the one of the best apps that that I've seen >> in places like India. Uh, there's the David and Goliath problem. When you're David, everybody loves you. When you're starting something, when you become a Goliath of a company, inherently people dislike large corporations in a in a strange way. It goes everywhere a little bit. >> Yeah. Yeah. Even in America, I think there's a little bit of anti-inccumbancy and a rebel inside everyone and hence I don't think >> a super app works in places like that. >> Why did you want to start the social media? >> Uh I believe social media is broken today. Uh we were looking at data from a bunch of people that the really young people 16 to 20 uh take Snapchat for example they might be spending they might be logging into Snapchat the same number of times but the amount of time they're spending on it is significantly lower if you take Instagram it's become almost no organic content like Matty will not post a picture of his you know I don't know you having a drink on a weekend nor will I or nor will anybody none of my friends. >> It seems to be a place where brands are showcasing different things and influencers are trying to sell one thing or the other either consciously or subconsciously. Um to have an app which is not governed by an algorithm which kind of insinuates and incentivizes a reaction in you by triggering uh hate or emotion that I don't think is conducive in the long term I think is useful. Also, I don't like the fact that a foreign nation controls the algorithm that defines the mood, nature, and evolution of the youth of my country. >> In in the incentive side, do you have a take of how like how you change the incentives to get people to post the organic side? Uh I think we thinking of a very like very tight funnel on the top where we control who enters the app. Like incumbent social media probably has bots engaging with you and trolls engaging with you and I don't know how much of it is organic and how much of it is not. But the idea is to have a place where real people can connect with real people speak about real things without I don't think anybody can take out bias altogether but with significantly lower bias and a place which is safe to have discourse you know I I might agree with you on something I might disagree with you on something but I don't think there is a place or an ecosystem today where you can have that conversation so we hope to kind of create it but I'd love uh you know advice from you broad thoughts on what should a new social media have also how voice plays a part in whatever the newer version of social media is >> first of all I think you're you know like the aspiration or the idea like I mean as I agree with like I hope even the current social media platforms will get there too like you you know like I think there's a clear aspiration for them to have like a little bit more of the positive sentiment rather than kind of the the the fear driving the the the the algorithm. And I I I don't know if you know like I don't know how this will get figured out yet, but there's definitely this element of like authenticity being now the the way to go like nobody wants to read like a corporate you know like manicured press release statements and I think that's that's great. So if I were designing social media, it's like how do I get more of of of that uh part would be like one of the key elements. Um I'm thinking through through both the the kind of the voice aspect and um >> um do you know air chat by the way? Do you see do have you seen air chat? >> I have seen air chat. Yes. >> They're trying to build like a social media based on voice and podcasts. Mhm. >> We do have that mode that we already have >> like I think our podcast is very like entrepreneurheavy. We try and tell people how to a start a company and then we try and help them on the path of starting a company. We have a grant, we give them some money, we try and build a network for them to go out and build. Um, so it can be pivoted around a podcast not just of mine but of a bunch of people who have the same outcome in mind. M so maybe you know like I'm starting the kind of opposite way on the on the voice side first like I could imagine the whole interface very being very different where you you kind of you the same way you would imagine Alexa or Siri delivering you the knowledge or some version of of Jarvis where like you wake up you want to learn what happens on the social media and and it kind of summarizes things that are interesting to you and you can ask questions go deeper like for me that would be like part one where Social media comes with like embedded assistant that kind of keeps you up to date on what's happening and you can engage with that where where I could like oh leave a comment here or hey engage with this part or respond to this person and you could you could like imagine both responses both being text or voice directly. So like that would be like a first like a very shift into like the static timeline view into more of like interactive companion view. Um so that would be one component of this two. Yeah, I'm I'm kind of I'm hesitating because I'm thinking like how would I incentivize the people and that's the tricky part. But like I do think there you know if you if you record a video message from you like that's that's great. Second to that you record audio message image then text. So if you could have a a voice as part of that would be great. Simple version of that on social media could be like you know you write a you write a post or you write an essay and I can listen to that in your voice and and and and enjoy it. That's that's kind of part of how can I leave the messages and comment across uh would be another another big one. Free which is both on the language level but on the voice level making it straight international translated and and and then enjoyed across languages would be would be another one. Um but look I think it's a very tricky tricky one. Um, in terms of like the incentive side, like how do you shift that? You you know, you're probably more familiar given given given your work of like uh tokeniz based or or like incentive monetary incentive based approaches. I'm not it's like I I can see this working, but I'm not a big fan. I don't like this like kind of transactional approach like it should not be that ideally you like engage because you're interested rather than because you think it can give you like the monetary reward. like it should be a secondary versus primary effect. Um I think you know like that the what what's shown to be working I I think the verification side I would keep the verification side. I think it's valuable for people to know that the the other side is is a a real person >> and then over time there will be a question of how you verify for for human part. I think that's going to be another big topic but I would um I would have that if I was creating social media I would bring that as a big part of the equation. Um the I'm still thinking about the incentive part like how how would I incentivize the positivity versus the negativity and that's u that's that's that's you know like almost the world got in some places calibrated this way where negativity gets more attention >> and like how do you shift that is it >> it doesn't even have to be positivity it could be neutrality >> positivity like you know like like but then Um >> like if you're going to trigger a emotion like say the emotion could be greed, the emotion could be to pontificate. By being here you sound smarter. This is a bunch of people who are trying to feed curiosity. U there's a bunch of thing other emotions that you can play with which are more on the right. If the curve is left being negativity and right being positivity, you're more towards the right. >> No, I agree. I it's it's you know like I think the the key thing is you want to avoid the kind of the algorithm just rewarding what gives the the highest um knee-jerk reaction. >> Correct. >> Um and and it's like it's like if you could have a platform that like inspires curiosity and and like learning or like different points of view in a way that doesn't lead to just like two sides screaming at each other. Incredible. >> Yeah. >> I mean >> maybe maybe we can work on this together. you can take care of the voice of it. >> Let's do it. It's I feel like it's like it's you know there there's no yet there's no product in the space >> on the consumer space that has like AI enabled in the right way. So in the >> it's like there's no AI social product today. >> Yeah. Maybe we'll catch up in London or we'll do a con call. I'll add my team and we can ideulate they have some ideas as well >> or in India. >> Yeah. Yeah. You're coming on Feb, right? >> Exactly. Just 100%. Yeah. Okay. Thank you so much, Maddie, for doing this. I think we're out of time. [music] >> Thank you. >> Thank you so much. >> We'll catch up soon. >> Let's catch up soon. And let's uh thanks uh it's amazing to see how you support the ecosystem. So hopefully hopefully we can do that too. And and and [music] thanks so much. >> Thank you. [music] >> How long are you there for? >> For a week. >> Yeah. Do you have time? >> Yeah. >> To travel? >> Yeah. I I'm I'm going to be between Bangalore and Mumbai mostly. that's happy to go. >> I'll take you to Goa for a day or two if you have time. [music] >> What's in it? What's What is that? Do you have offices in Goa? >> No, I have a house in Goa which is a lot of fun and I have dogs in Goa. [laughter] >> It's a It's like a beach town which is very relaxing. >> Amazing. [music] >> Yeah, we'll plan it. >> Thank you. >> Yeah, you're in London, let me know. I'll take you to I don't have dogs, but uh [laughter] we'll take you to cool places. >> Cool. >> [music]