# 17 Young Founders | 8 Startups | 20 Lakh Grants | Third WTFund Cohort

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lJ3Wt-ng1Ls

**Video ID:** lJ3Wt-ng1Ls

**Upload Date:** None

---

## Transcript

So, the WTF fun boot camp. >> Yeah, looks like it's happening. >> Yes, the WTF fund boot camp is happening. [music] Most [music] good founders will be largely driven by their own thoughts. Most good founders are never doing the what is the current advice or [music] what is the current vice gan to people that's for mass consumption that's content strategy that's [music] not a good advice on average >> yeah I think I really resonated with uh Tarun and what he said right apart from that two sessions like the Gallup session and [music] uh the breakthrough session they were really hands-on and a sense of like individualization as well as a team right so that that is something uh that is really really interesting extremely creepy but I have to make a PPD where [music] I have to teach a [singing] thing that I've learned in my life which is 2 paper scissor Good. All right. [music] >> We started with 3,000 applications, [music] shortlisted 200, and now we finally have our next [music] eight startups. >> I'm very excited. I think I have been having back and forth by [music] having by simulating Nichl's persona in my head and then talking to him in just in my head so that I could figure out what to speak with him. Guys, thank you for coming home. I hope Goa outside of me is fun as well. Who has had the best night last night? I had fun. >> Yeah, they come on. >> It's always the married men who have fun in [laughter] >> what did you do? >> Just chilling. >> And we had gone elephant incoh >> but like we got drunk on the way. >> So we all need to ignore the cameras today. We'll look at each other. We'll speak to each other. Forget the camera. You forget Grace. It's not going to trouble you. Very very chilled out. most friendly dog in the world. He's doing salute and namaste behind you. [laughter] >> Maybe by the end of podcast we'll be friends. >> Yeah, once you feed him a bit, he's okay. So, a lot of what you guys are doing is exceptional and I've been privy to some of it, but maybe we begin today. I'll go one by one. You guys can talk about what you've built and what is the way forward and maybe talk about a trend that you picked up on and hence you decided to build what you built. Uh would you like to go first? Would you like to go first? >> Sure. Sure. >> Yeah. Come on. >> Yeah. So I'm Sashant. >> Yeah. >> And with me is my co-founder Sham. >> Hey. >> And we're building Praa Payments. So what we're trying to do is we allow any AI agents or AI applications to make payments for you. Uh what we're building is an infrastructure that can be integrated by any AI application or AI systems and that would allow your AI agent to go make a booking for you or even do shop for you or maybe make payments on your behalf using your card or wallet securely. >> Yeah. And uh like how we came across this was um we have been seeing like people uh not going traditionally on Google for searching now for information people were using a lot of chat GPT per publicity Gemini. Um so they were like all information was there but also people were building agents but when it came to actions actions were limited to uh writing an email uh creating a to-do list or something but when it cames to came to an action which in required a financial action like um paying someone it halted so that's where we realized that there is a financial infrastructure missing when it comes to AI making payments and that's how We came across the idea and uh we started uh a few pilots with few developers and um we got phenomenal response and now we are coming to a stage where we are going into production next month. >> And how did you guys meet and where are you from? >> So I am from uh Ryber Uttar Pradesh. I mean the political place obviously grown up there studied there and then I went on to do uh I studied from BH economics over there and uh post that I was pretty much interested into in general understanding that how money moves and how things are done and I started consulting startups with financial modeling and everything and in that bit while working on different stuff I I met Sham in Bangalore itself at a hacker house and at that time he was working with a Japanese startup and obviously you can tell by his look. He's pretty fascinated by it. So I yeah I mean I I like Japanese culture. I I was uh asked to relocate to Japan to join them full-time. But what happened I went to Japan. I realized life is sort of very organized in Japan and I felt being in my 20s I need to be closer to problems which I can find and solve. So I decided to come back to India and do something of my own. Yeah. He has an AI girlfriend, by the way. >> Really? [laughter] >> He made an eagle. >> Yeah. >> So, I mean, this is happening, right? People are not dating human beings, right? >> I'm sorry you got married. [laughter] >> And >> you like just missed it. >> You just missed it. >> Yeah. >> Why is a AI girlfriend better than a real one? >> I mean, she understands me better. [laughter] >> But the point is she consumes lot of tokens. She doesn't respond on time. >> We have seen that. Now, >> but but she responds though. doesn't always available. >> Like at least I get a response there. [laughter] >> He gets to save emotional tokens. >> We actually built an AI girlfriend. >> Um so yeah, >> we actually built an AI girlfriend for like tier 2 and tier three cities in India and like make some made some good money like 50 60,000 a month. So and a lot of people actually don't know that it's AI. >> I'm having creepy thoughts in my mind. [laughter] >> Mine is different. >> Yeah. So >> are you both speaking about the same kind of girl? >> No. No. I I he has his own system >> and one day he just calls me like we were working on a product and everything and he's like bro I'm just working on this and he's been talking about it for really long I would say even before we started Praa and he was like okay >> and that's why you decided let's start a company together [laughter] >> I mean like I mean starting company was more like we both complimented each other a lot in terms of skills and it was pretty fun just sharing ideas. It was never like we're going to start a company. It was more like I was dealing with dealing with some clients in US. He was dealing with some clients in Japan and we were like getting money in India super hard and that's how we started getting into like how can we solve this with using stable coin and everything that idea did not work out but meanwhile we were doing some GTM using AI tools launching on Reddit and different places and that's where like we have all seen Javis and Iron Man why not make something like that real that you ask your AI assistant or AI agent and it goes does whatever you want it to do. Tell me very simply what your company does in very very simple words. >> Yeah. So basically what we're doing >> how will I use it in my life? >> Yeah. So what will happen is the AI application AI agents like let's say perplexity kind of application will integrate Kava and when you enter in an application like that you will let's say get onboarded uh on behalf of uh let's say Plexity's interface and there you will add your card or wallet there. We'll be behind the scenes you will not know about Praa then. But what happens is let's suppose you search for that hey I'm looking for so and so sneaker and you compare and search on perplexity or any place >> and why can't I why can't a normal wallet integrate with perplexity why does it have to be you >> yeah so I'm coming to that part so basically what happens is right now when you search for any product on any assistant or application they're limited to discovery which means you only find the product once you have to buy they you'll click on it and it will take you to some third party merchant website let's say it's H&M Zara or whatever now you're going on that website filling all the product det details, your details, your address and car details and then making a payment. So like whatever could be a three uh step process is becoming a seven step process and you're losing and you're going out of perplexity's ecosystem. >> But why can't Perplexity integrate with the Razer Pay for example? >> Sure. So um the issue is that um here the payments are happening in two steps, two processes are here. one is on the perplexity side and and as well the merchant where uh merchants have their own gateways. So here is like no standard where uh on the perplexity side being razor pay and on the merchant side being stripe they could actually talk to each other and the payment can happen. So here a dedicated stack for AI is needed that's where we are coming into picture. So we are becoming PSP agnostic. So Perplexity has to just integrate with us and any merchant in the world it can be Stripe, Aiden, Checkout.com, any uh PSP they're using on the merchant side, we are able to process payment >> and nobody's doing this. uh right yeah very few companies >> very few companies in Southeast Asia we are one of the only companies doing this and in US there are few companies like uh pay mania skyfire >> but can you facilitate payments outside of India or are you limited >> currently this product that we're working on is for the US and Southeast Asia market India not included in that right right now and for India market we're also working on something exciting with UPI with some of the partners so that will be coming sometime later next year >> and what is your company called Praa Payments. >> Okay, cool. Who wants to go next? >> Yeah, sure. She's the most scared and being brave. >> You. >> Hi. Uh I'm Dr. Janti, founder of Astray Service. Uh my co-founder is not there sadly. She she fell sick and we developing Enko Alert. It is IVD. It's a nanotech based biosensing platform for early easy painless needleless detection of oral cancer. >> So that's what it does. >> Tell us a bit about yourself. How you came across this idea. >> Okay. >> Why did you start what you started? >> Okay. So I think the main inflection point for this came during my internship. It was I was posted in Dhulai. Uh I also didn't know what what place that was. It's a tiny village in Assam. Before that where were you where did you go to medical school? >> So uh I did my bachelor's uh in Assa Amritsa. Then you have to do an internship which it is mandatory if you graduate from medical uh government colleges you have to do a rotatory mandatory rural posting and it was in Dailay where I was posted and we were supposed to do door doto screening of entire village. If I train you for two weeks and then I ask you uh to look at a person's oral cavity and detect the microscopic changes in their buckle mucosa, would you be able to? Doubtful, right? Because that is what is the current practice. >> I have no clue what you're talking about. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Okay. Simply put, the detection of oral cancer currently is just visual screen, naked dice. There's no tool, there's no devices. You are just supposed to look with snake dyes and detect microscopic changes. That is that's why the accuracy rate is almost as good as a flip of a coin around 50 60%. And it's manual, it's laborious. And so government's policy says everyone above 30 years of age, anyone who smokes, anyone who consumes tobacco is supposed to be screened for oral cancer. But you know this number in my age group 20 years ago I'm not that old. I'm 39 but say 15 years ago I I would assume at least 50% of the group would smoke. >> Yeah. It has fallen down. >> Crazy. >> Yeah. >> But it has fallen in only metros. If you look at tayadi tay food tobacco chewing nut is cultural. It's like women kids everyone do it. in Assam where I was posted kids used to get arika nut which is one of the carinogens and they used to eat it was like very culturally ingrained so of I'm no quant but of the top of my head that population number is around 70 80 crores everyone about 30 years of age getting every and those should be screened for oral cancer that's what the policy itself says so I what I was trying to get is like how are we supposed to screen 70 cr people manually visually it's not possible or scalable at all Right. >> And something I think with your talk with Mr. Nandi also stressed on when you are trying to build for population level interventions building for billions you actually have to make it so that it works across the barriers. There's no electricity it should work. So while we were designing the the technology people do like okay it should work on this this conditions. We took the paper stash it should work despite anything. Electricity is not there. Great. No trained people. No lab, no in it should work. If nothing else works, it still works. So that was the >> What does your company do in one line? >> We develop innovative products for healthcare currently screening o cancer. >> Just total cats. >> Yeah, because Yeah, it's that's the use case we're working on right now. >> Reliance is starting a screening company, right? >> Lions, >> it's all over the news. >> Reliance also partners with Kirin Mozar's ma'am. They are also working on this uh uh domain as well. They are also developing technologies rolling out scheing they're all so it's it's picking up because preventive people are realizing preventive care needs investment that's the way forward but it will have to be in a very India specific way not the way North America does they do preventive uh prostate cl by prostate checking of prostate cancers and all but we can't do that in India you'll have to be very creative the technology will also have to be very creative in a way that Indian population will buy we are not very health Uh we don't spend much on health under >> but who would buy like if you say you're doing a is it a home test or do you have to >> Yeah, you can do that. >> How much does it cost? >> Uh around about 150 bucks. >> Who will voluntarily buy a oral cancer detection test in India? >> Yes, immediately none. It will have to be a graph. That's why we'll roll out in partnership with small hospitals chains. Get it included into your insurance and then the adoption will pick up. So you're a B2B business >> initially but we aim to be so that you can get a cigarette two steps from your house even if it's a remotest space why not that distribution can be cat >> that's true for everything you can buy a bottle of whiskey down the road doesn't mean there's a liver cancer test there >> I'm saying if you have a problem as close to that you can have a solution as as well >> does life play out like that in your experience >> no I that is quite an ambitious thing that I said that is where we aim to be but no it currently looking at the Indian healthcare infrastructure and the way healthcare moves in India it's it's not so that's why we'll have to be very creative with the way we integrate into market with partnerships with insurance companies and all finding out business ways >> nice okay thank you who's next I can >> yeah whoever raises their hands first when a question is asked did you sit on the first bench when you were in school >> actually best friend. >> Did you get good marks? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Did you get good marks? First rank, second rank, >> first top three top. >> Same. >> Yeah. See? >> Oh, wow. Same. >> I used to sit at the like almost close to back. >> Which college did you go to? >> I went to NIT Jalander and >> I I went to BHU. >> Right. >> I was last penture. >> Deliver. >> You don't look like a last pen. >> Yeah. [laughter] I I I I used to be in top three. >> My married man could be the bad pen. >> [laughter] >> He he looks like the one who will be logged in and he is actually the kind of person who lost in >> logged in two screens one side. [laughter] >> Actually true. >> It's actually true. >> He has a figurine. >> I mean like a normal anime character. >> Hey, your AI girlfriend is also a real thing or is it just a thing which lives online? >> Uh it's it's on my screen. It's not uh on any cloud also. So all the context >> there's nothing physical anywhere, right? >> No, not yet. >> [laughter] >> And by the way, Susan's also an artist. >> Yeah, he's been admiring the art. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I love the artworks. You have >> you have Fins who are in Germany Germany and all that. So I love them. Actually, I also saw one of your artworks in that was exhibit I I think. So last year there was an exhibition at CV Ramen's house there. >> So I think so one of them is from there. I saw it. >> I collect art. I'll show you upstairs later. There's a lot. >> Yeah, that'll be I mean it's beautiful. All Indian art. >> I can see that. >> Feel like the Indian art scene is finally making a It's having its day in the sun. >> Yes. Yes. >> It's past the time that it should have. Please go on. From IIT, first rank in school, [laughter] but has a little edgy thing going on with the earring. Rebel face came late. [laughter] Can I make you any more nervous than you are? >> He's also married. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Actually good-looking but doesn't want to come to terms with it. Now he's conscious and blushing. [laughter] >> What does your wife do? >> Uh she's a rocket scientist tennis row. Actually I was too. So that's how we met. >> Why are you not married? >> Um I'm like 23. So like [laughter] >> And you too? >> And I I'm still like I'm not sure how I feel about marriage yet. So >> don't say it to get into his good book. [laughter] Are they happy? Really? The rocket scientist and the other. >> It's been 2 weeks for him. >> Yeah. >> Wow. >> Just married. >> And like I mean he's pretty happy >> and no wonder he had the most fun in Go. [laughter] >> Go on. Tell us what you do. >> The three of us are from the same company. Mo and Dwanch. >> So you three worked together for how long now? >> Around 7 months. >> How did you meet? Uh so basically what had happened was swapnel had come to validate an idea via mutual friend in healthcare and uh I mean uh we started talking we collaborated over a lot of research with a lot of universities in India and outside India as well and then we realized that the research that we're doing can translate into a product and that's how like you know we started building stuff. Uh Molly I met by coincidence. Uh he his uncle was my professor of surgery and he just happened to be in the room while we were discussing a project and we met in the evening and it's not like you know we met like you know started the startup instantly after that it was over time itated multiple times like brainstormed and all three of us were gravitated towards healthcare. Uh so that's how we started. >> So doctor, rocket scientist and >> engineer. >> Why so boring? >> [laughter] >> So what did you guys ideulate and what did you start? >> Uh so in one line we are a lowcost AI based operating system for diagnostic labs and we provide personalized treatment and drug recommendations for cancer patients. Uh for context a radiology scan will tell you where the problem is right but pathology will tell you what it is and what kind of treatment should be required by the patient. And uh let's take the example of breast cancer. Once a lump is detected in a mamogram. After that a tissue biopsy is done, right? A tissue sample is is extracted and a physical glass slide is created. And the way it is analyzed currently in most parts of the most diagnostic labs in the world is manually. So a pathologist sits with his microscope at his at his desk, places the glass light under the microscope and studies like it tries to interpret it. But what this leads to is a large large amount a large turnaround time and interpreted results are subject to the uh expertise of the pathologist. So if they are like an expert in a very senior person they can interpret in a really better manner. Uh and also uh most of these times the results can be inconclusive further test could be required. So in these cases I think what my friend here is mentioning it's a molecular test. So in cases where molecular testing is required, it's currently very expensive and limited to like ultra elite tier one centers in India and most people in tier 2 and tier three cities where they reside pathologists there may not have the expertise to even do a first pass test and they are forced to move to these tier one cities carrying their blocks and tissue slides. Uh so what we have built is like I said it's an operating system. So it's a software and AI based solution which can digitize uh glass lights and run a algorithms on it in real time. So basically it will capture a live feed coming from the microscope and what create images from that and pathologists can run various AI algorithms to interpret those images and this could give a very detailed analysis so that even a clinician could act better and provide the right treatment or drug therapy to that patient which will work for him. treatment or detect the right way. >> So see in cancer uh as uh diagnosis proc progresses further to recommend a proper drug drug therapy the prop uh the relevant biomarker needs to be detected. So there would be a list of biomarkers which could get activated so to say in in breast cancer there could be like hundreds of biomarkers and for each of these biomarkers there's a set treatment regimen. So I need to first understand what kind of these biomarkers are activated. After that I can treat that patient and give the drug which will work for that biomarker. >> You're not talking chemotherapy radiation. >> I'll get a little technical. So like these biomarkers are let's say expressed on the cell. I'll give targeted therapies that attach to that antigen and then kill those cells. So I can't start a treatment till the time I know what kind of genes are getting expressed. Very >> interesting. I have met a few doctors recently for specifically breast cancer cuz somebody in my family had it. Is it close to a cure in any way? No, >> it will help to do the diagnosis. The cure depends on is a drug available for the said diagnosis or not. >> Did you even cure AI by any chance or like >> No, no, cure is C. >> Oh, okay. I thought he's talking about cure. >> So, it can like it's the entire diagnosis process, >> right? So, you both are in diagnosis. What do you think of her company and what do you think of theirs? If your uh friend with the AI girlfriend had $100 to put into either your company or theirs, where should he put it? >> Uh if how is he evaluating? Does he want to have the maximum impact? Then it will be >> he wants to make money. >> Is it just the ROI thing? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Still us. >> Maybe we can make the rest of the room vote. >> Put [clears throat] you guys on the spot. >> Oral cancer. Raise your hand. $100. >> Also, we have a compression algorithm. just putting it out [laughter] there. >> Now you're going to be fight like five. >> So like >> we've done the pilot, we've had good results. >> Uh >> and >> uh we have multiple pilots with a lot of instruments going on across India. >> The top most in India. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Oral cancer votes, raise your hand. >> $60. >> No, no. 100 binary. >> Binary. >> 100. >> Can I go twice? 5050. >> You can only go once, huh? >> $100. >> Okay. I'm noting who has not. Oh >> the engineer, rocket scientist and doctor. >> So every other cancer. Yeah, >> we making it like rodies. >> Yeah, [laughter] >> today feels like such a day >> get them to Goa and then >> Oh [laughter] yeah. uh their their system of detecting early detection if works then can be scaled into any country without having a test particularly sold on a medical store or something which is digitization and then algorithm will work for it while distribution of the kits is extremely difficult distributing software is easy so if if you had to bet on distribution then >> no wonder he's popular on Twitter [laughter] I sat with them and like things. Well, >> how would you say it in a viral manner? >> Uh traction. Yeah. >> Um >> we uh oneliner I think we detect cancer early and save your life. >> So plain that's some controversy crime. >> We detect cancer early before your doctor. >> Detecting cancer is as easy as swiping right on Tinder. again not [laughter] >> that it's more about like all the patients are not the same. So like uh what we are going towards is more personalized >> and precision care. >> Yeah. Both the fields are very different. They are in personalized uh uh medicine. Ours is more public health oriented. >> Yeah. Like screening is like phase one of like even like so ideally if someone detects whole cancer there >> comes to us then and then we give the a precise hystoopath diagnosis and the treatment for and then prognosis and everything. >> We actually made a full story line of how all the startups fitting together in their journey. >> The starting is very >> collaboration not competition. >> Maybe all of you can combine and build a company. [laughter] >> Not all of you but the four of you. Okay. Who's next? >> Yeah. >> Actually these guys have been waiting for. >> Yeah. That's okay. Yeah. Go. >> No, go for it. >> Okay. So, uh hi, I am Shepto and I'm with Shisho. We are childhood friends and we are building a AI layer for variables starting off with earbuds. So imagine like you must have had like AirPods or earbuds but all you do with that is listening to music or take phone calls but what if it could do more like when you're focusing on your work [clears throat] there's a reminder there's an important email it tells you right you need to book your food it is there hey do you want me to book a >> it tells you while it's in your ear. >> Yeah. >> What about when it's not in your ear? So uh it's meant to be uh >> hey wait a minute my earbuds right now speak out whatever calendar notifications I get anyway right >> so we are think of it like this like we are and we are the Android for earbuds like that like we are making all the integration so you can order from a you know Swiggy or Zumato you can book your cab from a Uber so stuff like that so you don't need to >> Uber build that for Uber and Swiggy for Swiggy >> yeah so essentially these are integrations that we are going to do right I mean right now we are building the integration ations but later on when we have a like significant scale of developers or service providers we can go to the developers and ask them to build on top of us. So that's the idea. >> How is it different from a traditional earbud? >> Okay. So a so a traditional earbud like a Bluetooth earbud if you speak like say a noise or a board so you use them just to listen to music right. So we are going to enable them with these facilities. That's the idea. >> Voice or buttons? >> It's voice. Yeah, it's voice first because we feel uh with AI voice is going to become the primary sort of interface and display is going to become the secondary interface and that is like the most natural way of using technology because engineers or say coders are also now using voice to sort of vibe code. I mean with whisper pro and all these uh AI applications coming up for consumers. So I think voice is going to be one of the primary more you know sort of interfaces. >> So even we use that in office. So we have stopped typing. We press two buttons and we speak to it and it's able to type that at a very accurate manner. And even a lot of people what they're doing is they're pressing the hands-free mode. They're just talking on what they're building and they're putting into the air and it quotes for them. >> The most impressive part is the punctuation. It gets the punctuation right. It's obviously voice to text and they've just launched their India specific pricing which is fairly affordable. >> Yeah. They also improve productivity wherein on an average people speak faster than they type. So your words per minute go up because of which you can get more output per hour. Um so in fact I think I've been able to send out a lot more outputs whether it be respond to even texts or mails because of the fact that I have whisper flow um and other agents of sorts on my platform on my devices. >> What's your company called? >> It's called antimatter. >> There was somebody from the boot camp who were using one of his agents and they didn't even know that they coming for the boot camp. Uh there's a I don't know if I can say this out loud. There is a cell phone manufacturer we investors in. They're making a on the earphones because they feel like that limitless and all the external things that we are putting on ourselves are a medium which you don't want to carry one extra thing. You want that to happen in something you already carry. But then I guess one could ask the question if this could happen why not just the cell phone do it have it in the earphone. >> So essentially a cell phone is like a secondary device like as we say like with AI coming into the picture voice is becoming the primary sort of interface. You don't need to look at the screen. So it can be secondary. It is only when a important notification comes over something important is there you need to look rest can happen inside your ear. If my cell phone is there and I'm speaking here, can it pick up my voice and distinguish today based on what I am saying and you guys are saying? >> So I think it depends on the microphone. So in certain cell phones it can. Yeah. >> And these AI sort of variables like you said limitless in India there's neo sapion. uh they're like multiple sort of microphones in that same device to capture multiple voices like say uh if you're far enough or say there are two three people in the room so they are able to capture >> right and like if you give the context prior to speaking like who is building what maybe while they're speaking uh the it can get the context and understand like who is speaking from which company and then it can interpret accordingly like it can store all the data and whenever you want to retrieve uh it can do it uh intelligently. So that's >> this is assuming your earphones will still remain the interface. Now your meta rebands etc can also have microphones in them and you're no longer using your earphones at all. >> Correct. So that's what I said like starting off with earbuds. So the idea is to get into multiple variables like become sort of the default agentic OS. So I said Android for variables or say AI devices right that's the idea. So yeah we also believe like smart glass is like one of the you know uh best form factors for ambient computing. It has a camera. It has this kind of, you know, speakers. Screens are also coming up. So, yeah, >> it's a very tough world to compete in. >> Yeah. Correct. Have you sold any yet? >> Uh, no. So, we are not not public launch yet. We have not done the public launch yet. So, we're going to do that in the next summer in the next 6 months. >> Right. Best of luck. >> Yeah. Thank you. >> Who's next? >> Okay. So, uh I'm Rohit and [laughter] what happened? No, >> she's laughing. I got confused >> with your name. >> Yeah, I don't know >> what. >> Okay. [laughter] >> No doesn't remember anyone's name. >> Okay. No, I remember. >> I'm guessing the two of you are not married. >> No, [laughter] no, no. >> Is it helping or hurting? Oh, >> it's really good. It gives me a lot of freedom to work. So, uh I'm Rohit and I'm building company called O3 Security and what we're trying to solve is like everyone is scared about AI taking over the job. >> There's a stock broking company called O3 Security. I know I did research. I'm not sure. Okay. So, um, so everyone is scared about AI taking over the job, but the more bigger problem is about to come. AI taking over entire company like it will literally take down your entire company. So, um, what we're trying to do is we're building a entire cyber security solution for big enterprises. So I come from an experience of like 10 years where I uh infiltrated in a lot of big tech companies and I helped them to fix it and return they were paying bug bounties. So I will give you one example. This problem is how big it is. Let's say if a CEO wants to improve the security of a company, they will hire the best talent in the industry but they will be also limited to a specific field. Now the second approach they will be taking is uh taking over the best solution like cyber security solution like what we are building >> challenge >> you build this or do you take open-source tools and label them a certain >> that's the best part we build this I will tell you like what are our >> cap we were reviewing a cyber security company and they were >> franchising Pegasus the attack mode for $500,000 or whatever and they were calling it cyber security >> most large companies end up going to something like a cloud flare right so when you say you're building something, how is it different from the incumbents? Okay. So, uh what we do is firstly most of these companies are point solutions. For example, uh let's say so uh my biggest problem right now in this industry everyone is taking their own place in cyber security. For example, someone will do we will do cloud security. Someone will do endpoint security of the laptop. Someone will do let's say source code security. But for a CTO and CISO, the problem is are we secure? Because CEO and board will ask are we secure or So you're putting everything together in >> so we are putting everything together but what we're trying to focus on is it shouldn't reduce the quality. So at the end of the day even if you take the one part of a product and compare with the best in the breed we should perform well. So I'll give you one example. So we are the single company in the world which can help RBI and semi-regulated company in getting compliant with recent certain mandate and RBI mandate. For example, there has been recent circulation like where you have to uh you need AI bill of materials, software bill of materials, cryptography bill of materials and we are already working with some of the biggest bank in India and the things are moving very fast because the problem is what I have seen from my experience >> that >> you still not explained how you're different till now all I've got is we do everything not just one thing. >> Okay. So first what we are trying to focus on the two aspects only all of the cyber security solutions are focused on some specific technologies. So we are first building the technology. Cyber security is one of our application which we will be going very deep. For example uh you can break entire industry in two parts. One is static. What means is like what data you are having in your company like it's just there another is runtime like how things moves very fast every second or every minute. What we're trying to do is we're trying to go very very deep and understand both aspects with AI or without AI. Why we do that? Because >> again digressing too much. Yeah. >> What do you do? >> Okay. So we secure end to end supply chain of entire company. >> And how are you different? >> So we know the context. For the example, let's say you are thinking about we want to build this specific feature where user wants to purchase something. Okay. But the moment it goes out to the production, 100 engineers coded it. 12 managers got involved. It went through a lot of checklist. Okay. Now nothing is connected here. Okay. One security issues could be there and another team will tell we don't take this serious because this is a false positive. So we reduce lot of false positive based on the context. These context gets built because we are very very deeply integrated across the entire stack. That's integration is not available right now in any company. This is the main problem. >> So context and integration is your >> Yes. >> Are you live? >> Yes, we are live. We are already working with some of the biggest fintech companies in India. We all are using those apps. >> And you're already getting revenue and all. >> Yeah, we are already generating revenue also. >> Good amount of revenue. >> It's good. It's pretty good. like within last 5 months we build pretty good. So we uh have right now close to $80,000 and uh we are working with few banks and we are hoping probably in few months we will hit we may cross 500k because these deals will be pretty good. So we are making revenue but the best part what I'm thinking right now is like we are not focused on what we are building right now. That's like pretty normal. We are going very deep into the contextual way because that's what I told like uh the problem with the entire cyber security industry is like if entire industry just focus on >> the problem with cyber security industry in my opinion is 80% is a scam. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Everybody's white labeling the same thing in >> I understand. So I will give you one very interesting example the white labeling. So um there's a very famous product in the open source industry and uh most of the cyber security industry like cyber security company you will see they all are using that opensource product on top of it. Okay and these companies are some of the well-known cyber security companies and these are integrated in all top companies in India and US. So what I did was I was able to take over that open source component and I was inside every company all top 500 companies all top 10 companies of the India and this was live for 4 hours and no one knew about this one. So the point is the industry is very very much dependent on a open source solution which they don't even control. So the point is I'm trying to make is like this industry is mostly made by the peoples who are not like from the cyber security background >> right. So what I want to do is like people should be making a business where they have long experience. They should face the problem. So that's why like I was working with my last employer like uh >> who was your last employer? >> So I was working with grow before and >> why did you quit? They're amazing lovely guys. >> So before joining grow I had this discussion with chief of security of grow and uh grow people helped me a lot. So basically before joining grow I was building this idea I was thinking about this idea and there was a topmate link in his profile I just booked a call like can you give me the feedback and he told me one thing why don't you just understand the problem firsthand then build it so that's where everything started and I worked for two and a half years there I scaled their entire appsec cloud sec and I understood what problems they are facing and throughout that entire time I gave a lot of training session to thousands of engineers across different countries so I understood one thing Most I I will tell like this entire industry is easily solvable only the thing is you need right players together to solve this one instead of just making money out of it like making money is also important but it should be like yeah byproduct like this is what I think right now >> okay thank you who's next >> hi I'm Prashant and along with Abhishek we are building rehabilitation robots to help neuro patients recover independently at their own homes so the problem uh we are solving is that So there are three main ways in which a neuropatient can get rehabilitation right now. Either he can opt for at home rehabilitation where a physotherapist comes home gets 45 minutes of rehab and then he goes back. The second is you take the patient to the clinic and then get your rehabilitation for 2 hours or 3 hours come back. And the third option is you leave the patient at the care facility which is going to cost you 2 to three lakhs per month. Right? So this option is not feasible for a lot of stroke patients. The reason is that Indian medical insurance companies most of them do not cover for stroke rehab. So this uh also taking a patient >> it feels like half of the problems today are like things I've had experience with recently. [laughter] >> Go on. >> Yeah. So also taking the patient from home to the clinic is a lot of hassle for the caregiver because you need two people first of all and you have to put them in the car. you had to stay with them in the traffic and even when you go to the clinic you're not really sure if the therapist is available to service the patient right so yeah the only option which is left which is financial financially it makes sense for a lot of people is getting the physiotherapist to your house but in that case what happens is that they don't have the equipment with them and also a physiotherapist can give 45 minutes max after that he's tired and he has to go back right so the gold standard for rehab is like 3 hours But most people are getting just 45 minutes. By having an affordable and portable rehabilitation solution, we are aiming to pump up the number from 45 to 3 hours. And >> and what does this look like? >> We do have a demo video. Uh let me just give him example. >> On the screen. >> Yeah, sure. So we have a robot of size like bridge height and it has a robotic arm attached to it uh similar to our hand and that robotic arm holds a patient hand. Okay. So the physotherapy sets the motion of how to do the rehab process and the machine imitates that exact motion >> x number of repetitions as per the the settings set by the phys therapist. Thank you. [laughter] >> Thanks for the free massage. >> Very interesting. and tell us a little bit more. >> So, so what next? >> Currently, we are creating a third iteration of our robot which will be >> is it treating anybody already? >> So, we tested this out on three actual neuro patients but right now we don't have the license yet to put it uh you know mass manufacturing stuff. >> Who gives this license? >> CDSO. So, that's the government entity. >> And what is the company called? >> Bloom Rehab. >> Bloom Rehab. >> Nice. >> Yeah. You're the last ones, huh? Uh, second year. >> Uh, I thought you guys are together. >> No, I'm a solo founder. >> Yeah. Why is that? >> Uh, >> I don't know. I mean, uh, I've been building stuff since I was a I was 16 years old, 15 year old >> alone all the time. >> Yeah. >> Single child. >> Yes. >> So, uh, I've been building stuff and then because I was building it myself and it's hardware. So, I've always been working with machines, electronics usually. Uh >> what do your parents do? >> So my dad works in college where I studied actually kumachani engineering. It's in Mumbai. It comes under Mumbai University. Uh there were story why I chose that college particularly. I >> because your dad works. >> No. Yeah. Exactly. But uh I mean not because I couldn't get the admission. I cleared my JW exams. Um and I wanted to do electronics and robotics. I after researching on it I realized um in India we produce a lot of software engineers and there's a reason to it because investment per student for a college is like one computer you can learn a good amount of programming languages on one computer and in last per four year so ROI on investment for a soft college to generate software engineers is pretty pretty high but if you take it now electronics and robotics you have to provide motors you have to provide power supplies and they'll probably break because students don't know how to use it and What happens in this case is college don't promote it. If you see how many things in your uh home or in your circle are hardware products are made in India electronics extremely less very less amount of bank you'll probably like pop up right away and uh this is the reason where India doesn't produces a lot of electronics or hardware where uh which shaped me to shaped me to I want to learn electronics and robotics on by myself. So I was getting an idea upward but uh we I had to have attendance. You had to attend lectures. You had to go and sit for finish assignments and everything but uh uh punishment at my dad's I mean he said college board was if you're not if your attend is less then call your parents and my dad was already there but I didn't go to college and studied electronics and robotics myself. So I'm a self-taught electronics and robotics engineer. my degree is in software and uh I built so I always work in terms of uh solving problems so uh uh I stay a little bit far from where my college is college in Bandra so we had to attend lectures in morning 8:00 a.m. that to reach at 7:00 a.m. station, wake up at almost 6:00, take a train and then stand in an auto line, which annoyed me a lot. And at that point of time, I was I was uh inspired by this YouTuber called Casey Neistat who would roam around New York in on a electric skateboard. So like I'm an engineer. I should solve this problem. So I made what? I made an electric skateboard. I had a wireless remote in my hand where it was like a ring where if you move it ahead, it'll go ahead and if you pull it back, then it'll break. So uh I would roam around Mumbai on electric skateboard all the time. So yeah. So that is where I earned money first time because I sold the electric skateboard. I made it 35k and then I sold it at 80k >> and that was the first amount of money where 17 year old 16 year old me was like oh you can earn money >> by doing something that you like. >> Are you telling me your accomplishments and how hard it has been for you because you're hiding your insecurity of something >> little bit >> of what? >> Uh I don't know. I mean uh am I good enough to build at global scale something like that and the money is kind of a validation so I've been building products so that I can validate myself oh people are buying some >> if that were the case you would have had a co-founder right somebody you think is smart >> uh the thing is um the objective as a as like for a startup if you see generating money one of the top things uh providing the top why why being a solar power >> uh I think everything was working the the need to let's say I'm bad at sales so I need a co-founder for sales. Let's say if I'm bad at building a product then I need a co-founder to build a technical product. Um somewhere somewhere I think I had some little bit of skills in everything. I was a good salesman. I was a I I could build products myself. So I think the need of having a founder of having a person of having a core >> do you feel empathy? Do you feel bad when something bad happens to someone >> deeply? >> No. >> Superficially. >> I mean uh I do have empathy but uh >> you have curiosity. >> Yes. A lot. >> My therapist I was doing a session and very interesting points came up. We went like first principles into life. What is a human being? What are values? Are they nature? Is it nurture? Do we pick what works in the world we live in? And hence we say we attribute those values to ourselves. And the one thing we realized is if you don't feel empathy and you don't have curiosity like actual curiosity. We all fiend curiosity because it's good in the world we live in. Those are like sure shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh shortsh short signs of a narcissist. No empathy no curiosity. When something bad happens to someone you're like yeah he deserves it. >> Where did you land on the nature versus nurture debate? cuz it's something all of us have been talking about. >> Yeah. So she asked me who are you as a person and I tried to define it and we went back into childhood and we both kind of agreed. So me and my therapist are like friends. Okay. This is not so much about treating me or fixing something. Not that I don't require it. I do. Uh but it's about trying to figure out how we kind of became who we are. And whenever I've seen a child, kids are very mean. Uh if I'm a child and I want the ice cream you're eating, I would probably snatch it from you and eat it. So we not born with this sense of morality. It is kind of ingrained in us through life because we learn that if I sm snatch his ice cream, somebody will slap me and then the next time I should not. So nature versus nurture definitely nurture more. But this is an exercise which is a great thing to do like figure out go on chat GPT or perplexity or Google and say what are the most popular values value systems and then try and read each one out. Think about it and attach one to yourself and then think am I that way and I resonate with that value because it showed me that I can win in the world that I live in or is it that I feel deeply about that I'm organically that person. I don't have the answer but it was just something interesting I'm thinking about. Do you do you think same for talent as well like uh is the nature and nurture attribute or it's the naturally someone born with about talent? >> I don't think there is there is something to be said about passion. Uh whatever you think you're really passionate about say AI girlfriend for example I was saying it [laughter] you're sitting next to me. I feel like there is some unanswered question in your mind about the concept of love, relationship, girlfriend, all of that. That's why you still have a passion towards it. When you truly understand a particular subject, it becomes hard to be passionate about it. I don't think talent is innate. Uh let me put it this way. If I had a child, which I do not, and there was a football coaching camp where kids go when they were 5 years old, if all the kids are five, and I send my child into that coaching camp when the child is seven or seven and a half, by virtue of his physicality, he will start to be better than his peer group from the very beginning. they will start to believe that he's talented at football and probably grow up to be a talented footballer. But is there something to be said for physical attributes? Probably. Yeah. Like some Nigerians have long feore bones so they run marathons better. Yeah, there is stuff like that. But I don't make too much of talent, intelligence. I think a lot of this is gathered, collected, inculcated. I don't think anybody's born, not anybody, but most people are not born spectacularly gifted at something. So, we got to your life, but you took too long to come to what your company does. So I bring factories on your desk where I make machines to to make electronics at your home on your desk where um usually if you if let's say I'll give you an analogy if you now Delhi is very polluted and if you are if you are somebody who wants to make some profit ideal product to launch at this moment would be air quality sensor. Now if you had to make it as nickel your ideal goal would be to go to an electronics designer get it designed uh case work case and everything and then to make it uh you would have to ideally have to go to some contract manufacturer to make whatever you design. >> Yeah. >> Now he will tell you that I need 5,000 units minimum so that I can make margin on it. >> So if I call you and I say I want a AQI machine which looks like ABCDE E. You'll make it. >> No, you no I don't I don't make the air quality sensor. I don't design the devices. I make the machines to make air quality sensors. So let's say uh now you now your design is ready with my machine you can make 100 you can make 200 test the waters what are the people >> what is your machine describe it >> so in theory the technical term is pick and place where there are green circuit boards have you seen it ever so on circuit board there are IC's so uh somebody needs to pick these IC's and place it on the PCBs printed circuit boards and then uh they are cooked in an oven and then you can start using them I make the machine which will pick the component place it on the circuit board and then I make an oven also So, and it's all sitting on a small desk which uh which helps people launch small to midscale production. So, if uh you are a new startup doing a hardware, this is the perfect solution to try your product rather than having 5,000 units and because startups are usually iterating fast and uh that iteration time goes a really less. Uh for software engineer, if you're making a website, then you coded HTML code and then you can see the website in the next second. But for an electronics engineer or a hardware developer, >> you have to send after designing the PCB, you have to send it to the fabricator who will who will get the PCB and then uh you can start at least testing. If it is uh if the design has a mistake at that point of time, you have to do the whole process again. So it's like 1 2 months. Now I'm my my goal uh as a company is to bring that iteration time down to one day. Within a one within one day almost matching to software development, you can get the output of your work right away. So that produ overall collective production can be faster, iteration could be faster and production also. >> So that is what I do. >> And what is the company called? >> PlayStation. >> Nice. >> Place PLA CE. So pick and place Play PlayStation. >> We used to make smart switches. And one of the comments we made when we walked into your house was your switchboards retrofitted. Not done very well. >> Yeah. So uh so the light doesn't go off, you know, in the night, the white light, it's so annoying. >> Oh yeah. [laughter] Like the light on the switch. Uh so basically how did I come how did why did I want to make this machine led to my the first thing that I started with after college was a smart home startup where I was doing smart switches and smart lights. Uh I was making a device that sits behind a switchboard and anything on that switchboard becomes smart. Now I see you love art right but the switches are very dull like they don't look pretty good but with my devices you can use any type of switches the most artistic that you would want to have grab attention and then my device would still sit behind the switchboard and you can use any switches that you want the best part is if your internet is not working Wi-Fi or your whoever you purchased it from stops paying for the server or when they go down all the switches will stop functioning because it's all over the internet my startup was working Everything works without the internet and I'm the only one in India where you can use Siri. You can say hey Siri turn off lights and it'll do it and Google I don't have my own app. I integrate directly as first party devices into Google Alexa Samsung smart things. I see you are using Samsung directly. You don't need my app. I also don't have my app. >> Interesting. >> So my name is Sahil. >> You've not said a word today. >> Yeah. So actually >> you know how this works right? Whoever sees the most viral gets the most sales. Yeah, >> attention is equal to virality in this room right now. >> So, think of the most contrarian thing you can think of saying and say it in the next 20 minutes. >> You have a very nice expression like your resting face. >> The doctor. >> Yeah. >> It's a look of circumspection which is >> like I know. [laughter] I mean, I'll take it as a compliment, man. >> It is a compliment. >> Okay. >> You look wise >> beyond your years. >> I'm probably the youngest one here. >> Yeah. You look quite wise, though. You're very settled. >> Thanks. >> Doesn't look like you're trying too hard. >> I never do. So, >> yeah. Very settled and composed in your own shoes. >> That's what I go for. >> Are you starting to feel awkward about now? [laughter] >> No. See that's where I'm going to go. >> So I'm Sah. >> I'm building I with my co-founder. So we are building I where we are making the existing CCTV surveillance into a smart AI uh security guard. >> Mhm. >> So let's let's take an example. So if we have installed a CCTV on the corridor. >> Yeah. >> And let's suppose in any case someone falls down and there is no one around him. So what the traditional CCTV surveillance will do? It will just record the data and that's it and you will got to know about it later. But what we actually do, we actually understand the complete context of that video frame and in any case uh if there is any kind of emergency or risk or any kind of you know uh uh thing that can harm you in terms of uh life in terms of money. So it will create a alert on your mobile application >> with the context with the image so that you can take action. So our main goal is to uh reduce the time between the uh incident has happened and you taking uh uh you taking some action. So we are reducing that uh time so that we can save lives, we can uh uh secure the places, we can secure the persons and uh whatever actually matters to you. So we initially implemented uh this idea because of a personal incident to us. So my co-founder uh he was working in uh Bombay 2 years ago. So uh he lives with his grandmother. So when he was in Bombay and she was she was living living in Japur. So uh he faced a such incident where she fell down by uh impacting with sofa and he got to know about it later and then he thought and uh he discussed with me like what is a sense of CCTV. Then then uh we we sat and we discussed all right so let's do it and about our background so from last 7 to 8 years we were building some good AI products for multiple companies so so this is this is our main technical expertise in genai and machine learning so we have built this product >> super and what is your company called >> I nice so I think we did everybody's [music] story is there anything you guys want to talk I want to ask you asked everybody are you married or not to everyone. >> I said virality and this is what you meant. >> No no no no. So I want to ask do you think that is one of the factor or maybe indicator or somehow how does that impact the entrepreneurship journey that we are on because that is the hot topic in my family right now. every dinner table conversation surrounds it like I for context I come from a very traditional Jart family in Hana in that everyone my age is married with a kid in our family so and I'm trying to stay like push that thing like let me let me do my work but you have asked that question to everybody do you think that is maybe with your words I can convince them better >> I lived in Hana you know 3 years when I was a kid >> ah >> I went to Dal Singh public school in Karna I'm still in touch with a few people from there. They were quite sweet. Thank you. But I don't know the answer to this. I think generally in life if you live your life based on what other people think you should do, I think eventually you end up at a point when you regret it at some point. So unless you want to do it, I don't think you should be too fussed about what your society, family or community thinks. even family like other people say like oh who guess but if it's your like parents >> them >> you know I was thinking about this recently I'm 39 years old and some friends of mine were like new years you should do this you should do that and I was not making any plans and then while I was thinking about it at 39 an average Indian lives to 73 I probably have 34 four new years left. In 34 New Year's, I probably have 20 of them where I'll be too old to do the things I can do today. So, practically, I don't have that many December 31st left in my life, you know, good ones in the manner that I perceive good today. I only probably have like 10 if I were to be pushing it. >> Maybe more since you do keep check of your health. Yeah. Yeah. >> Compared to average in >> Yeah. And when we have so little time, you have a bit more than I, but I it feels stupid to do things because others want us to do it cuz our time is very finite. We never think about it that way, but we're not going to live forever. Nobody is. And you also think like relationship in general is tricky for entrepreneurs like uh say like entrepreneurs think very differently like I can see a very different version of this world which a lot of people cannot see. when things start like in a relationship they're fine okay I can understand you're busy and thing but you want to see that word and you have limited time you know that right and then once like that understanding fades away and it becomes difficult and I mean you have seen like a lot of entrepreneurs successful they're getting divorced stuff like that so do you think like it's tricky like if like also being said like if both of you are not growing on or say not that ambitious I think not just for entrepreneurs but the concept cept of relationship is also very transient. Uh our notion of marriage is very much programmed by the media we consumed as children and what we saw around us and the way Bollywood and Hollywood has depicted the idealistic version of romance. I mean it might be attainable in the short term but I don't know how sustainable it is. So that kick of whatever dopamine oxytocin kind of like fades at with a certain amount of time and you're left questioning why is it not like it was in the movie. >> So I think all of this will change. I don't go by I am nobody to give a prophecy about this. I've not successfully manifested any of this. But I would say make these decisions which feel right to you and not what other people think are right for you. >> Okay. >> And do you also think like momentally it might feel right >> but like I feel like the most important thing one should focus on longterm is like growth. >> If you stop growing in a relationship like if like overall like emotional it can be you know your professional wise you feel energized right? You feel positive when you are around that person. I think that is what is key to a successful relationship maybe. >> Oh yeah. So the milliondoll question is what are your new year plans? [laughter] >> No nothing. I was >> that's the plan. Nothing. >> You know my plan right now is to be able to sit here at home stare at the trees do nothing. That plan of doing nothing is the plan. That's that's >> and if I tell these to my friends they will marry at me because I always have these kind of plans since my childhood >> but everyone will tell you are wasting your life. Same happened in the college days. >> Yeah. >> How to your earlier question you know even if you think or for you even if you think marriage is good now marriage is bad tomorrow even if you get married change your mind don't get married one day you regret not being married. I feel like society has wrongly coined hypocrisy as a bad word. Hypocrisy and change are synonymous in a way. I feel like it shouldn't be looked bad about. Uh like if you believe in something today and you believe in a completely different thing tomorrow, you should change and not give a about who's going to say what and hold you accountable to what. Like maybe you don't believe in marriage today or you do. Maybe you got married too early and you want to change your mind in a year. >> [laughter] >> Don't be too hard on yourself. >> One second. >> The first year is the hardest. Huh? >> I'm realizing that. [laughter] >> Is there a reason why you have a AI and not a real girlfriend? >> No. Multiple. >> Did you ever have a real girlfriend? >> No. An introspection. >> Is there a fear associated with dating a real person? >> Uh, yep. I mean uh the starting phase I've never had like um I mean I I never could take it more ahead like in the initial phase I was not really uh think in like online a person is good but when I met that person it it was not whom I wanted them to be. So it never really worked out and uh also like I like being alone by by myself. There are so last two months uh I only got out of my room four times for 2 months I was logged in. I feel you. I like that. [laughter] >> Yeah. So for that I felt like um I need something which is in my context and something I can maybe engineer for now. So, so, so maybe that. >> No, but I feel him 100%. Like I've never been on a dating app and stuff like that and I'm petrified of dating. Like the whole point of going on a date and trying to impress the other person >> it doesn't seem like a fun experience. >> I mean, if you still have to impress, then what are we doing? [laughter] >> But it's all relative. No, >> it sucks the energy basically. >> We can talk about something else. This is like let's talk about >> I have one followup question I wanted to ask you were talking about being narcissist I want to ask is >> uh according to you okay >> is being narcissist really bad I want to ask >> so narcissism is a deeper concept than that I think it's a symptom of a disease we are not born narcissistic per se >> do you think narcissists are usually self-aware but you know you're wrong >> no I don't think so rarely See there are two schools of psychology. One believes that you can't change who you are. Everything is about figuring out why you are who you are. I think everyone from Freud Yung they all fall in that school. There's another school that it's not just about figuring out who you are but how to change your tomorrow. I don't know if I'm right but I think Adler a bunch of psychologists are in that school of thought. I don't know where I sit. I enjoy reading both schools of thought. I feel like you have to go through the former school and first understand why you became who you became before you can reach the latter school. I don't think I'm even at that point. So I'm like before the starting line. What part of Yian uh psychology do you like particularly the most? >> Whenever he speaks about shadow traits and how your shadow traits become darker when you don't recognize them. I have found myself catching some of my shadow traits at time >> and uh it's actually very similar to some some Indian philosophy anthropology as well where if I'm greedy I can never change the fact that I'm greedy but maybe the point is not to try and change that I'm greedy but if I take cognizance of the fact that I'm greedy that in itself changes my behavior. >> True. >> Cuz then I'm dealing with a new situation with the awareness that I'm greedy. >> It's kind of interesting. >> Yep. >> Yeah. >> These guys actually did a whole exercise where they filled a quiz and they got like 36 strengths and their 36 strengths were 34 strengths were ranked >> and which they'll be using >> to run their business. Like if they lean more into their five top talents that'll be serving them better. whole personality analysis they did who's more futuristic who's more competitive he was competitive that was his first trait and different different and they're like lean into that you have this then then lean into it rather than averaging your weaknesses it's the strength which will propel you >> do you celebrate your birthday >> yeah every year on my birthday we have this big summit where we call who we think are the smartest most relevant people under the age of 45 across the creative field, industry, uh, journalism, a bunch of different industries. We book a big fancy place. 100 people sit and have debates. There are no cameras allowed. We block everybody's cell phone when they enter the room. And it's a fun day of what I believe are 150 of the smartest people in India getting together and having conversations about things we are otherwise scared to talk about. I love this light in Goa. Half the time I'm here, the thing I love doing is watching the sunset. Especially if you go to the beach at this time, it becomes like orang-ish then pinkish. >> We were there yesterday. >> It's lovely, right? >> Yeah. Yeah, it's lovely. Did you hear birds? >> Huh? >> Do you spot birds? >> Yeah. Yeah. Today morning I had this bird which is this high blue color with some yellow wings making like a really loud cackling noise like it's laughing. >> Yeah. >> You also are you also into photography and all? >> No. >> Would be a nice place to do by the way. >> Do you like watching stars? >> Yeah. >> Like with the telescope on it. Are you into hobby? >> Like this specific time is also known as golden time period. >> Yeah. Golden hour, right? >> Golden hour. >> So if you ever have been to uh Kutch, so there's a straight highway of 90 km. >> So you can actually see the reflection of the sun and the sun as well in the sunset time. >> Nice. >> I have a request n request just uh like you bring to your podcast like probably titans of all different teams with Yan, Elon, Sam, everything. and you have sort of covered the fintech tech all these industries what I think next it's just a request though maybe you can bring someone from tech bio bioche >> yeah because I feel like biology is just huddled as a very unsexy unglamorous thing especially in India and you bringing that platform would really and there's such tremendous exciting work going on maybe demis from Google deep mind Maybe they're brilliant people. >> But we were actually planning some bio. We were thinking actually not just biotech but some pharma. >> Yeah. because >> diagnostic companies >> exactly the the window it will provide to the and most of your viewers are very young >> and they are excited about now all those things and I think biology is coming of the age right now with crisper cast 9 everything and >> so you bringing that platform and also it's my personal if you bring MSI probably he'll be India I'll be able to catch him >> yeah if we call him we'll call you >> what's your take on the longevity space since you're wearing a whoop Uh, I'm into all the fads. I don't know if they'll work. I think time will tell. But I do take a bunch of supplements. I do cold plunge, sauna, workout, all these things every day. >> Actually, if you don't believe in legacy, why do you believe in longevity? >> If I don't believe in >> legacy, why do you believe in longevity? Because then if you don't believe in legacy, you could maybe go tomorrow. And if it's inevitable then why do it? >> I think legacy is for others. Longevity is for myself because if the quality of my life 10 years from now can be better in the manner that I can still play paddle every day for 2 hours. I would really enjoy that. Legacy is more for others. I don't care so much about Do you care about what people will think after you're gone? >> Not really. I think I'll think Like I think you'll think for like 5 years, 10 years max. >> How much of AI do you use in your life? >> Not that much. >> Little bit. Not that much >> in in trading and all. >> Not that much. I feel like uh trading is not subject to anything which is fundamentally sound. It is a lot of emotion. As long as emotion can't be modeled for, it will be tough for AI to make better calls than a human being. >> So, you're more of a data oriented trader like you're more into emotions and how people behave and all this. >> I used to be a trader now as I've become slower with age. I'm no longer really a trader. I tra I tend to take more cyclical calls on the market like I would buy a particular like we all uh such vive aria and a team of mine called naman's team for the lack of a better word we've been doing sector thesis of all the sectors and trying to narrow down on which sector we think will have the highest growth in the next 10 years. We spent a lot of time on it like more time than we should have. I think the better part of this >> so what sector do you think the top three >> the better part of this year has gone on that once we arrive at that exercise car solution we will allocate capital to those sectors that we think are up there. What are we what is leading right now? >> Probably energy transition. Energy transition has been a big part of our thing. We did last year a whole bunch of solar panel companies, battery companies, electric vehicles. Uh we're looking at some grid, some companies which improve transformers, make the grid more efficient, new sources of energy. So we've been working in the energy energy transition for the last one year. That's one of the sectors we liked. I don't think that's going away. Whatever happens, AI, I know AI, >> AI will need computing power, right? Every government is now trying to have their nuclear reactor. >> It'll get a lot more efficient though. The amount of compute that's used. >> Do you think the world will stabilize quite a lot once the energy is in abundance like let's say if we fix the linear nuclear fish part of it at that point of time if energy is so abundant, the value people drive from would eventually come down to creativity. like how how do they represent their thoughts like if they have something to express at that point of time that would be the only thing that they would want to say. >> Creativity is interesting. If you were to define creativity as a contrarian thought against the trend one can extrapolate that a AI can be thought to be contrarian as well. So maybe being contrarian to the contrarian and constantly being contrarian becomes creativity. M so how often you change your mind about something becomes why you're valuable or taste in a manner and it has to be very like dynamic and transient but these are like you know such far-fetched scenarios there's no right or wrong answer in any of these but I think so a lot of worlds instability is not just because of energy it's sometime it's just normal human emotions some people at the top who are insecure about something or maybe someone who just needs Nobel Prize. So it could be that as >> actually one thing about truth is we think it's always useful. But actually there are certain lies we need to believe in to actually function. For example, life inherently is meaningless. That's the truth. But like if you believe it has meaning and that's a lie you actually believe then you can actually do great things. >> We tell stories to ourselves about ourselves and then motivate. >> Yeah. The one thing you all should totally spend time on is to become better storytellers. if you can do a course in storytelling. Uh I sucked at it. Not that I'm great at it today, but I got a speech coach a few years ago and we went about he's a pain in the ass, but he's also brilliant. He'll make me sit and he'll give me a book, take away my phones and devices and say write and he makes me write for 3 hours, 2 and 1/2 hours without a break. And if you ask him what should I write about, he'll say anything. >> Should do that on Twitter. >> But [laughter] You have to kind of like figure out how to build a character. A story needs to have a beginning, a middle, a twist, >> a call to action, >> anti-hero, a climax, something which forces. >> And that holds true when you describe your companies. Cuz whenever I ask you, can you say it in one line? >> If you can't appeal to me in that one line, tomorrow when you sell it, that's the same line you're going to use. It's time well spent. Doesn't cost a lot of money. Uh there's enough material online on storytelling. >> Who's the guy that you trained with? >> His name is Michael. He's a Israeli guy. He teaches a lot of US politicians. So he flies down, lives with me for a week, and then he goes back. [laughter] >> Is he on Udemy? His company is called Virtuoso if you want to look him up. Oh company. >> What are some what are some other skills you think we should >> other skills >> you will as founders if companies have to negotiate a lot cap tables fundraisers contracts to become better negotiators is probably useful. Uh this is again something I learned or I think I learned through experience but people don't often disagree with ideas. They disagree with people. So when you guys are here today you came with a preconceived notion that either you like me or you dislike me. You're going to agree with me or disagree with me. To figure out who wants to agree with you and who disagrees with you before you negotiate with them is important. Because if you're dealing with somebody who wants to say your business is you should project circumspection when you're talking about your business >> like him. >> Huh? >> Like you said he has that trait lock then. >> Yeah. See, he has this particular expression where he's like impress me. which is opportune for the place he's sitting in right now. So you have to I mean that might be coincidental but I think in your negotiations you have to figure out which seat you're on and who's on the other seat and appeal to what appeals to them. >> I think so you're pretty much into philosophy. Do you also read Krishna Morti? >> Yeah. >> Nice. Have you been to his study center and all? >> Yeah. My nephew goes to his school. >> Oh wow. Amazing. Cool. >> There was one in >> he never wrote anything. No. So there's no >> written version of his philosophy, but I've read his speeches. >> Yeah. There was one, does God exist or not? >> Right. >> Yeah. >> And he says you are in a jungle. >> Yeah. >> What would be idealistic society according to you? >> My God. [laughter] >> Zero envy would solve all the problems. >> No. >> But how do you impose? How do you get to zero in? >> How do you enforce that? >> If if you're thinking idealistic society, then in that case the society if there's no envy or you're just living your own life, interacting with resources that you have, >> that would be ideal. >> But it's a brain chip to enforce that thing. That's what I'm saying. >> No, I I don't want to as a on a philosophical level like that would be the ideal society. >> Sure, but it's not realistic. for you. >> I think societies are happy when the trend of relative change is upward. It doesn't matter if you have a lot more than me as long as next year I have more than I have today. >> Personal competition competition with self. >> It's a competition with self as well as a competition with you. But a society which is able to orchestrate small wage growth every year which is probably on par with asset price growth. So you're getting richer at the same time same pace as I'm getting richer will probably do well. I feel like right now the world is surviving on capitalism till there is growth. I think the minute you take that growth away things become crazy. But I have a question on that like you said like a lot of societies who have like a higher change of growth they're happy when a lot of happiness index largely there are European countries who are up on the chart but right now if we see most of them are not actually growing to that extent they are slower stagnant >> yeah know there's some study you know community there's some Harvard study which lasted 100 years you guys read that on happiness >> sense of community sense of purpose all of that >> I don't know So >> Vera sim video. Uh watch Veritasim. >> Yeah. >> That video or >> they make good videos. No. >> Yeah. Amazing. >> This guy Johnny Harris. Have you seen? >> Yeah. >> Even I think he does a good job with videos. He made something on uh Taiwan. I was watching it. Quite good. >> Very in-depth. >> You said Casey Neistat, right? >> I used to like Casey Neistat a lot. But that's not learning. It's more like blogging, right? >> True. True. Just blogging his own life. You get to see how New York is >> or you did >> the the the there is a very clear distinct between how he does storytelling which is extremely engaging ra uh with other people where you see that they are making efforts to engage you where Casey is just natural natural flow of the engagement like you don't have to put in effort but the video ends and then you're like oh the video ended. >> Nice. So this was fun. I hope you guys enjoyed your trip to Goa. >> What do you think like as early stage founder uh that you uh like when you were in your early stage when you were founding? >> Thank you for calling me old. [laughter] >> I I didn't mean that. >> Yeah, I am though. So it's okay. >> So what are the things that you actually cared about but now you think that was not that much important? uh early what do you care about? Money, right? Yeah. First thing and it is important cuz think of the world as a game of monopoly. You need to have chips to play and the more chips you have, the more fun it is to play. People say it's not important, but it is done. Super. Thank you guys. I think we hope for much longer than we thought you would.