# Humanoids Cost as Much as an SUV Now | Nikhil Kamath x Brett Adcock | WTF Online Ep 2

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fL2wyVLX08o

**Video ID:** fL2wyVLX08o

**Upload Date:** None

---

## Transcript

[music] Let me know when you guys can start. [music] Ready? [music] >> Would you leave your kids with your humanoid? >> We're not there today. Like I would not let my like robot roam free for hours and weeks right now with [music] my young kids. Everybody talks about China is so far ahead in robotics. [music] Why is that? Yeah. I just don't believe this. [music] [music] [snorts] Hi Brett. Lovely to meet you. Uh what's behind you? Maybe we can start there. >> Hey. Yeah. Um so I'm I'm at Figure Offices. Uh we design humanoid robots. So these are robots that kind of like like kind of like move around the world like humans. Legs, arms, hands. Um behind me is our first generation robots, second and third generation uh humanoid robots here at Figure. >> Okay. So tell us a bit about yourself, Brett. Where did you begin? Where were you born? How did you come to build a humanoid? >> Yeah. Um so I was born in the Midwest here. uh in in the US on a third generation farm. Actually, [laughter] we um farmed corn and soybeans. Um and then basically since like middle school and high school, I started working on technology businesses and mostly in software. Uh and that led to basically [clears throat] basically now 20 years building tech companies. Um I spent about 10 years in software. uh ended up starting a company in 2012 called Vetery and it was an it was an AI marketplace for recruiting. The goal was to basically help uh candidates find jobs and employers find great talent and that that whole process is extremely broken and hard. I ended up selling better uh for a little over 100 million in 2017 to the Deco Group is just like the largest recruiting company in the world. After that, I I really want to get into hardware. So, I started a company called Archer Aviation uh in 2018. And what we do is we build electric aircraft, electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft. So, it's kind of like a takes off kind of like a helicopter. So, you can [clears throat] like put them in cities and it flies a little bit like a like an airplane. And it's full fully electric powertrain. And the goal is to basically help move traffic that's like, you know, in cities and move into the air so folks can get around a lot easier. And yeah, basically designed five generations of aircraft so far at Archer. Our current aircraft is Midnight is a piloted four passenger aircraft that we're we're flying now. Trying to get that certified in the US airspace with FAA. Ended up taking that company public about four years ago, five years ago. And then yeah, three three years ago I started Figure. So we we design we we we design and manufacture humanoid robots. And the goal the goal here at Figure is to be able to do everything a human can in the physical world. >> I have an investment in a company here in India which does electric taxis called aviation. How far are we really? Traffic is a big problem in India and you know I don't know how different Archer is cuz I've not seen enough about it but it's the typical electric taxi 160 kilometers range on a charge meant to take off from hotels the the helipads on top of a hotel get to the airport. How far are we from a world where this could be more pragmatic? This is something that will be used by people. I mean we have aircraft today that are are that are flying fully piloted. Like you you have a couple components here. The the first is you you have to be in the right decade to make sure the technologies are all feasible to make this really happen. This is a really hard technology. Most of the problems and challenges here happen because we have a um there's probably like a 30x difference in energy density between like traditional fossil fuel say kerosene that you might find in an aircraft in an electric aircraft. um like what we find in batteries. There was the problem of just like building the technology and really making it viable. I I think we've shown at Archer that that is like fully possible today. I mean we we fly basically every week. Um our full scale aircraft at this point fully electric similar concept of operations we'd want to do in market. Uh at this point it's largely like a safety and certification and policy like basically like what's gating this is certification. uh in most countries it's it's governed federally where you need like um you know in Europe it's YASA here in the US it's FAA you need you need like basically a certification level at the at the federal level uh that then unblocks your ability to take passengers and make it ubiquitous uh so at this point like largely missing certification you then have like manufacturing and scale needed um but but the technology is certainly here so I I think within the next like 5 years we'll be taking passengers like paying passengers around in in airspaces here in the world on electric aircraft like this. >> And if that's true for America, do you think that will be the way forward? Do you think that replace human driven taxis in the near future? >> I don't think it replaces all like human driven taxis. I think it just takes a a large portion of what's like the tra like the basically the folks that are taking transportation today that might be going that might be spending like half an hour hour and a half in traffic which is sizable in some places like LA it's like almost 10% of like all the all the travel in the mornings and after work it's just a much better quality of life if we're not sitting in traffic all day >> would it also change short hall flights like say between San Francisco and LA for example which is 1 hour >> like my view is like all aircraft like all all aviation like all air transport will move electric here and I think hopefully in our lifetime uh it it's starting out with like very short range uh flights mostly because of like a a specific battery energy density issue we we have like um if you had to compare like a battery versus like what's in a like in an aircraft like say kerosene that there's basically roughly a 30x difference like in in like net energy in those two systems. So you you basically have an issue where like you can basically just go like 30x like like like less far. And then with with traditional with with with with EV tall aircraft, you're taking off vertically. You're using a considerable amount of power doing that versus like I say an aircraft that might be going from San Francisco to LA that might be taking off conventionally. But we're starting with like you know we're starting now with like these short uh these kind of shorter flights helping them um basically like move move passengers around. it it'll then happen regionally and then it'll happen at much larger like long longer distances. Uh the technologies needed to go like kind of like much longer distances are very different than what we're designing here today at Archer with EV tall aircraft to to get to like you know those level distances where you need to kind of like city to city traveling at distances you're going to have to redesign a different types of aircraft system to do that in my mind. [clears throat] >> Will that happen though? Do you think >> it'll happen for sure? Yeah, for sure it'll happen. So, if you could bet on a train, a car, a traditional plane, or a EV flying vehicle going between San Francisco and LA, you would bet on a flying electric vehicle. >> Electric gets you like I mean like we can design like some of the safest forms of transportation in the world, like flying in the air. Um, I mean, flying today, we're like is the safest form of transportation we take as humans. there will be like a large portion of folks that will travel between those cities like this in the air. I think there will also be a large portion of that that also travels uh on the ground whether it's train or tunnel or car where there there's so many humans now and so many humans are just moving into cities. So you just have like a real issue where like the infrastructure is not just like able to support this at this moment, >> right? >> And how did you transition from Archer to figure AI? Could you tell us about that? Well, I think like one thing that's interesting at Archer is like the aircraft is basically like a flying robot. And if you think about what we do at Figure Build Robots, you need uh you know, you need batteries and motors and embedded systems, uh uh like sensors, control software, uh a lot of the same kind of uh ingredients needed to kind of build like kind of any robot just in in general. So, you know, having built up Archer over the years, like got really familiar with those key kind of areas and um uh and integrating hardware and software together just overall. I mean, for me as an entrepreneur like working in hardware, I think like the humanoid robotics like or solving like general purpose humanoids is like the ultimate meta problem. Uh I think the end state for most things done in the physical world is done through a humanoid robot. At this point, I think we we will see billions of humanoids on the planet um in our in like our lifetime and they will do everything for us from things at home like doing the laundry, washing dishes, uh unpacking groceries, uh cleaning up the house to we will see billions in the commercial workforce in um areas of like [clears throat] logistics and manufacturing and healthcare. Our core thesis here is that the world was designed for humans like we've we as humans designed it for ourselves. Uh so everything we everything you do we do all day is is designed for the way we look and feel and the whole world was for it. Even you know we're drinking coffees and teas right like with the cups that we hold and the the door that we like exit from here and the stairs and all the tools we use were all designed for our our um basically for our the human form. So our belief here is that the humanoid is like the ultimate like general purpose machine. And so what we have here is we have a a deep focus on designing like really incredible hardware systems. Uh at figure here we design basically the entire hardware and software stack on the robot almost entirely ourselves at this point. So that goes down to like the motors and battery systems uh all the electronics wiring um kinematics and structures um and in and sensors. Uh and then two is we we spend a large amount of time on the AI side. This is just like an incredibly hard problem. If you think about like the humanoid robot, the ones you see behind me, every robot has about 40 different joints roughly on the robot. And um a joint has like a motor that can spin roughly 360°. So the amount of um the amount of positions the body can be in is equal to like um 360 to the^ of 40. And so that means that uh there's more potential states a robot can be in than atoms in a universe, which is like always crazy to think about, but it's like much more. So you you can't solve this with code. You have to use advanced AI like neural nets to be able to make this really work well. So we spend like a a large fraction of our time outside of hardware on just like how do we get neural networks to control the robot and do the things we we would need to do like like real stuff that humans would do. Um, we're about three and a half years old now. We've shipped now three generations of humanoid robots and we've been able to demonstrate that humanoids can do like useful humanlike work now fully autonomously and and in most cases like with neural nets all the way down the stack. >> I thought of this recently. U I didn't realize how close we were to humanoids being in the actual world. And when I thought about that, I'm like, "Wow, I should have really looked this up earlier, researched it more because it feels very, I don't know, dystopian or utopian to picture a world where I have something that looks like me walking around my house, probably sitting in my office and in the car sitting behind beside me." It It's kind of a weird feeling to get your head around. Maybe because I'm not used to it and I will get used to it soon. Yeah, I think like it just feels like such a sci-fi movie a bit. Like when you see these things working, it feels just so like uh it almost feels like it's not possible to go do and make it work. We have them walking around here in the office and it's just like still not like used to it. Just like it looks incredible like seeing robots out and about just like walking all day and doing stuff. >> Does it feel scary, Brett? >> Not to us. No, we feel really energized being around the robots and and seeing it. Not not scary. I mean, we we built them like we really understand the limitations and uh we've inherently tried to intrinsically design the the hardware for safety and also the the whole system for safety. So, not scary to us. Like we're we're around them all day. We've we've made them. We've birthed them. Like, you know, we we bought them here. So, it just like it's something really special about it where it doesn't feel like it's poss I think the robots we have like are working really well. And to see that happening, you're like, "Oh man, just give us five or 10 more years. What would that really look like?" It feels like it's just too soon for the world a bit. Um and um but but it's all happening now. Like we're really spending a lot of time trying to build like true general purposeness, like be able to talk to a robot and have it do most useful things you'd want it to do. That's like a really hard problem like um it's a it's like largely a software and AI problem at this point uh for us to go solve but we can do it like if you we like we announced um you know recently figure 3 our our third generation robot which is right right behind me and we we we like we put out a bunch of content about how the robot's doing a bunch of stuff in homes and even in like the more like workforce and the robot is doing all those tasks like it's doing all the manipulation for all those tasks um and actions all through a neural network and we did maybe you know a dozen dozen and a half or so use cases there and under like in a few weeks with neural nets at places the robots's never seen you know before a month before that and I just like that that's the ingredient you really need to scale at really like like large levels like you need like neural nets on humanoid hardware and we're seeing that now so it it just shows us how like how close we are I don't it's not something we'll solve in a month but it's certainly not something that's 10 years away at this Can we start with you breaking down a robot, Brett? What's inside? Uh, I think the first thing you could maybe start with is vision cuz I did a little bit of research on vision and how a robot is seeing and how it has spatial intelligence in a way, but would love to hear from you like I can see the robot behind you. What's in it? Yeah, let me start with like the basics of the robot and build up to to to this in terms of vision. Um, vision is kind of like higher level in the stack, but low level on the robot. Uh, it's basically a bunch of motors and we have like roughly 40 of them on the robot. Uh, we call them actuators, but they're like similar electric motors that we would see out in the world today. We have a bunch more sensors and transmission and other things in the in there that make it much more complicated. But you can think of every joint as having an electric motor inside of it that is getting commands from a central computer and like what like how to output torque or how how to basically move joint positions. Um that is powered by a battery battery system like basically a traditional like lithium ion battery pack that you might see electric car or electric aircraft. >> And where does the battery sit? >> Yeah, it's right here in the middle of the torso in the chest. Um, so we have basically like bunch of motors. We have a battery system in the torso and then we have a computer uh both a CPU for compute and we have a GPU for inference for our AI models sitting in the torso next to the battery system. >> And how much of the compute happens physically on the robot and how much happens outside of the robot? >> Today all of our compute happens all on the robot. So we do everything on board. >> Will that change tomorrow? >> Some of the compute will start moving more and more offboard. uh there there's naturally some compute that needs to be done here on board. We need to run uh a decent amount of the neural nets at uh kind of like basically a couple hundred hertz like a couple hundred times a second. There's no way you're going to be able to do that fully offboard. The robot uh would just be too slow. We you can you can generally offboard you can maybe get a uh you know you can maybe get two to 10 hertz or something like that. uh you know you generally can communicate a few times a second but we we need like 200 times a second minimum on board the robot. So we have a lot of like onboard compute today sits on the robot to tell it how to move its motors and limbs really fast speeds. You got to think like every little time second the robot's n is repositioning its entire body to balance. It's repositioning its hand and fingers maybe heads moving to start seeing something better. And it's doing that closed loop, meaning like uh based on where the hand's going and what the task is going, the robot's re-evaluating what to go do. And it's doing that uh you know a couple hundred times a second. So we have a naturally a lot of compute here. We will offboard uh we we can offboard more and more of the kind of bigger brain thinking stuff over time into the into the cloud. Um, but today we do it all on board mostly because we don't need a uh we don't have to worry about having a network connection like you don't need Wi-Fi or 5G in this case and we can operate at really fast speeds and we know we can do the work like a human you know well I guess some humans can't can't work without a phone or network but like you know humans really can do stuff without like a a real internet connection and that's a similar how you think about a robot too. It' be a bummer if the Wi-Fi went out and the robot can't do anything uh anymore. So our computer lives in on board. Uh we have a ton of wiring, a ton of distributed like electronics. Uh and then we have a bunch of sensors inside the motors and the rest of the robot to understand how to balance and feel forces and track positions. So um like traditional robots that you see out in the world today, if you put your hand harder and harder on the table and keep pushing while while not moving, the robots really can't really understand what's really happening. Our our robot can feel that force like a human could. uh we have we have basically torque tracking and force feedback in every joint across the whole robot and that's really important to help balance and we have to touch the world and go out there and grab things. So we really we need to understand those forces. That's also a tricky sensor to integrate into the robot uh here internally and have we have cameras. So we see in pixel space on this current generation we have I think eight cameras. We have uh one on each palm and the uh uh of the of the hands and then we have them in the head the rest. So we can kind of see around ourselves. Uh so the robot sees through a camera. uh that camera can update, you know, like pretty quickly and that feeds into an onboard computer that then ultimately tells what the motors what what to do. So that's, you know, roughly what's really happening. So the uh the robot's reasoning in pixel space. It's it's going around like a self-driving car. We don't we don't have LAR, so like a camera based self-driving car, and we're like we're reasoning through the world uh based on that to do work. I'm no expert at this but if one were to say the mod's law is starting to fail where the number of transistors you can put on a chipset will not uh increase at the pace that we have seen they won't continue to double longterm to increase compute on board is that possible to have enough compute on board to make the robot never need to connect to a network per se >> yeah we we run fully on board today in commercial settings uh every every day right now. So without a network. So we one of our we have a commercial customer here in the US we've now been running with for over 5 months now every day. Um we we we put this out publicly. It's with BMW. That's a fully on board uh onboard system that's doing all the reasoning on board of what the robot should do. What what you're seeing in the world is um you know compute even if more law slows down compute's getting better. So you'll be able to put put more on compute over time than you have before. So our current figure 3 robot has like more compute like better compute than we had in previous generations. Uh second thing is like AI models that we're putting on are getting smarter and uh like it's weird AI models are one times getting bigger. Uh and uh but also also some of the the smaller models are getting smarter and and better. Um so that's also in our advantage meaning we can take um kind of bigger like reasoning models that traditionally have been you know maybe a trillion parameters or whatever billions of parameters. uh these these can be quantized now into like some smaller models that we can run on board that are also smarter than they were previously a year or two ago. So we have models getting smaller and smarter and we have compute getting better. So those trends in general are are in our favor and today we're running robots are fully on board so we don't have to wait for like a oh let's hope compute catches up or models get you know some some point in space. Um we we can do it all today. So uh like we really we really today have a path where you know fully on board we can run robots daily now in in commercial operations. The big bottleneck for us is we're we're trying to solve like general robotics here at Figure. And that for me for us means like putting a robot into like an a home it's never been in before and just through like a speech prompt like a like a voice prompt. Like ask it to do something like this could be like I'm going to be gone all day. Make sure my laundry is done before I get home. And you want that task done and done correctly over like a very long time horizon. If I were to think every task the the ingredient or the input is energy like me as a human I can eat a sandwich and I can do x amount because I can convert that into that I can convert the energy of that sandwich into something. Do you think the robot or the humanoid ever gets to that point where it becomes more efficient than a human in utilizing energy or creating energy >> today? we're like far like like less efficient than a human. Um humans are like are like the we are like extremely efficient. Um like our you know biological neural nets are really efficient. The way how much energy or how much power we use to exert like walking and movements and things are and even just sitting here idle is much better than we get on the robot today. Um I see no reason over time like you know we're seeing power drop now across our robot systems like you know um there's there's there's a bunch of work that we're doing now there's like there's like the computational work to get more efficient and then there's like the mechanical work to get more efficient uh overall that we're look looking at both of those two are like we're getting improvements on year to year like our robot to robot um I think we will approach we see a path like approaching humanlike kind energy consumption. Uh it's going to be really hard. Like you're you're talking to us now in the early days of this like we're like, you know, it's like way more like 16 years ago. It's like it's it's early. It's just now happening. We there's a lot of stuff on our road map that we're like, "Oh man, we got to go like solve, you know, manufacturing at scale, all these different things." And uh reducing power uh footprint is is is certainly one of them. I wouldn't say it's a blocker today. Like we can like we can do work in a lot of cases almost the whole day depending on what the task looks like. um in and if it's not that if it's you know a task that has a lot of locomotion and movements we can do kind of like human shifts in terms of time span >> is that the ultimate test like if a robot were to have general intelligence with the same amount of energy it should be able to do not more of one task but more of any task a human can do. >> Yeah. I think like ultimately yeah like we would like maybe judge this on how much watts it really took to do these like like uh like like longer horizon tasks. I think the near-term thing is like if you got a robot in your home and you speak and you voice prompt it like what percentage of those things can they do fully and in like a human and learn from those mistakes. Like we make a lot of we do a lot of planning like doing laundry it's like okay well uh like where is the laundry baskets or what is the laundry other than the rooms like which rooms? Okay, this room upstairs or downstairs and you have to do a bunch of like like really quick like probably subconscious planning that's happening and then we got to go off and like actually, you know, uh almost like serially uh complete those tasks. There's a lot of like local failures that are happening. You go to a room and there's a laundry basket there. What do you do? Like a a robot's got to be able to reason through that whole thing from A to Z. And then in some cases could like for laundry could take hours. Like the ultimate test right now is like can we get a humanoid robot to do those type of things? And we we've seen that in like LLMs. We've seen like a like a a robustness to like almost like humanlike intelligence that we're like we're tapping into. And we're trying to do that now in robotics. Like how do we how do we get this like this machine to reason about the world like like a have like um common human common sense. And um I think that would just be like a that'll be incred when we hit that. You're going to have a robot in your home and you're going to be doing this and it's just going to be incredible. And then from there, yeah, getting to more efficient systems. Um, getting the cost down. I I think you're going to spend a lot of time with the robots, like as like almost like a companion. Like they're going to be in your home. They're going to be with your kids. They're going to be they're going to know everything. Like they're going to have like almost like this infinite context window for memory. Like I think you're going to like talk to it and it's going to know if you like it's emotionally from an EQ perspective. It's going to know if you've had a tough day from just the sound of your voice and when you come home. And uh I I think um there's a really important like >> do you program do you program EQ through how do you teach a robot to have EQ? Does it measure your voice every day and you have to like give it data as to this day I was feeling a certain way? It learns like that. the best like AI like you know um [clears throat] call like native audio voice reasoning models today can do a decent job at like really understanding EQ well I would say it's like it hasn't done as well with like I think IQ has been a big focus for like the whole space now of like information retrieval for voice models and things but uh there's a real path to getting voice models to like really high Q a high IQ and um that could be like really understanding your tone and your emotional state when talking. Uh these are like fully solvable things. Uh it's in the world model. It's in the data sets and it's uh a matter of like accurately training new like AI like voice and reasoning models to be able to understand this well and do well at this. But this is a this is a solvable thing. We we we were spending time on here internally. I would say in the next year or two, you will have like voice like AI models that you're talking to, whether it's on a phone or it could be through a robot or whatever that you really won't be able to tell if it's a human or machine anymore. >> And going back to the robot, you said there are 40 joints, 40 motors, eight cameras. The torso has the GPU and the battery. What else is in it? >> We have an order of like a thousand parts. So, it's like it's not just like a uh as in Petros is like here are those things. >> What's in the head? >> Um the head has like cameras. We have like like the normal network connections you would want like 5G, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth. Uh we have in figure three, we have three screens. We have a front screen like an OLED LED. We have like two side screens. We can like I'll talk about that. We have a we have a speaker and mic a new speaker and mic system that's like really actually really good for figure 3. So, we're spending a lot more time as like speaking to the robots. I I think um like like just voice is going to be the natural UI into the robot. Like you're not like maybe you have an app on your phone or whatever, but like voice is how you're going to communicate most of the time through the robot. Um and if you're not with it, you'll text it. like the like like that is going to be such an important part of the ecosystem here for >> is that the new form factor for AI overall to communicate with AI cuz a lot of people have been extrapolating what could be the next form factor after a cell phone. Do you think it would be something voice related? How does a man communicate with a computer tomorrow? Yeah, my view is that like voice is the natural like UI into artificial super intelligence here in general whether it's like a digital systems or physical systems and voice is going to play extremely important role in all of this. I think you will have both language devices like almost like next generation like kind of like iPhone level products and I think you will have humanoids and I think they will beworked really well together. Whenever I say this to my friends, they ask me, "If you're sitting in a meeting, you can't speak." >> Yeah. >> To interact with your device, but you can pull up a phone. >> Yeah. The the reality is like the there's a couple things like as we think about like the next frontier of devices and and stuff. Uh the first is like speech is just not good enough today. Like our voice models are not good enough today for us to really understand how this could be like ubiquitous and it's like the main UI. They're just like they're they're B. They need to be A+. They're not good enough in in a lot of areas. you they talk over you, you can't interject the sometimes the IQ gets collapsed in training and it's just not very intelligent and when tool calling there's a bunch of random issues but that is going to get really good over the next 12 to 18 months we will see in 12 to 18 months voice models approaching human touring tests and that's not just from an IQ perspective and information retrieval it's it's EQ as well as we just talked about naturalness um so I I think I think um that's one two is like the the models today just don't have enough context We're missing like the like when we're like going out in the world and we're talking today like all this it's being missed like the the models don't understand this. What it's forcing us to do is it's making us go to like a computer and type it type in prompts and ask it things and tell it like hey I'm like I have this thing and please help me here. But if you had like all this information like you had like a limited uh memory uh and retrieval of all this information we're having all all throughout the day every day uh these AI systems would need like very little understanding of what what is like currently in context or like what you need to do right now to help you. My view is like the next generation of stuff is basically language devices and humanoid robots and that that is like that'll go extremely far in my mind. Will they replace the traditional phone or computer? >> Yes. Every phone and computer was built preAI. The they the all the hardware we have today in the world needs to be completely rebuilt from scratch. Think about it like this. We have like humanlike intelligence in like the digital format now and we we are communicating with this through like really old pre-AII devices. there's zero chance or very low chance that they're they were somehow built specifically well enough for this new technology. Um in my mind there's it's it's not they're not optimized well enough for this. So you need a whole new class of devices and um robotics is a part of this story to basically be able to um take this like what's happening right now is we have like this massive AI overhang where AI models are able to do incredible things uh and like I would call it like the tech community like we have like humanoid robots doing incredible things with AI. We have like I can ask you know computer using agents to do crazy things now on computers without any human involvement and then most of the world is using AI systems for information retrieval like a Google search and it's mostly a constraint on hardware at this point. >> So this is a digression Brett but I was investing in a hardware company recently called nothing the phone company and give me some advice. I was playing off this thesis that a lot of the large language models are getting very democratized and the world will end up at a point where they're all a commodity and they're very similar to each other and hardware will be the new differentiation. Does that kind of make sense? >> It's a huge differentiator today cuz like people are like a lot of folks are just scared of building hardware. So you have like a lot less folks just even spending time on it and then hardware is just like so much harder to go build than software. So you have like a bunch of like this like collapsing uh conversion funnel of folks that like who are spending time on it that really knows what they do and then most people work on hardware build crappy hardware. So you have like you have a problem where like there's just not a lot of good hardware in the world and a lot have failed trying to do this and um you know at this at some point you will buy a robot because of what it can do from a safety and cost and performance like you want a robot that can't just come in and just do one thing in your home. You want to do everything and be fully general purpose. And then you want to getting better and learning. That's a data that's a data problem. So the more data we're feeding into the system, the smarter it's going to get and less mistakes it's going to make. You want like a you don't want like the dumb robot in your home. You really want a smart robot in your home. And everybody does, right? You don't want the dumb employee at work. You really want the like the fastest logistics robot or like the you know the highest performing manufacturing robot. So at some point the mode becomes like what can the robot capabilities look like? That's a data problem in some ways and you need the hardware and AI systems to do that. You need the models and you need the AI and the in the robots but ultimately becomes data. I think same with those devices you were talking through like at some point these models will know everything about you. It's almost like a really good executive assistant. A really good executive assistant like just is really high performance but like if you swap that person out and get a new person the next day it's like it's back to zero and it's really hard to get off the ground and start working. So I think data is going to be incredibly important. Um today we're not capturing most of that throughout the day. So there's a huge opportunity to really capture this in my mind. If you do compute on board and you're competing with say a large language model which is doing compute in a data center for example or anywhere will that integrated with a piece of hardware maybe not humanoid but any kind of hardware not be smarter than a humanoid >> the onboard model you mean versus like the offboard model. >> Yeah, >> we can run offboard models today. This is not a problem. like we we've actually done offboard models. So we we have one thing we have in the robot like on GPUs. We have a we have a B we have an LLM on the robot. >> We have a vision language model very similar to what we would like all use today um out and about in the world. We use that for like semantic reasoning. We use it um to really understand [clears throat] the world around us. And um if we can find a better model off board we we will use that. like there's no technology um blocker for us using like a trillion parameter model in the cloud if that makes sense. >> But do you think that's the way forward? Is that where you would be 5 years from now? Offboard. >> I think you will certainly have offboard reasoning. I think you will have I think you'll have both. I think you'll have offboard like a big brain offboard that you need to talk to that can do very complex um maybe planning and reasoning. You'll have on board something that can move like much faster and much more reliable. And then you even have smaller even smaller models living on board call we call it the S1 level like system one level that are doing like very fast um kind of like like really quick closed loop motor control. >> If I were to buy a robot and all of the compute and memory is on board. Isn't there a certain amount of learning beyond which it can't learn anymore because it's gapped to capacity? >> There's an area of like fleet learning here that's really important. We are taking data from all the robots and we are consolidating that out to like our our servers here at Figure and we're training on that. And what we're seeing now is we're seeing like incredible transfer from other robot data that's helping the current robot do better >> which is like which is unbelievable. Like moving packages and like logistics line is somehow helping us fold laundry. It's like the numbers. >> I watched that video by the way. It was really nice. Very very interesting. >> Yeah. Thanks. I mean like that type of stuff is helping like other tasks and it's just like that's kind of crazy, right? Like the only technology we've ever seen that work in is like is is like is deep learning and it's working and we saw that with LMS a bit. So I think um that's one and two is you really want the robot as it's making mistakes in the real world understanding and learning from that um like having a reward for it. So like you really want if the robot's like you know screwing a cap on top of a bottle and it's messing up. You really wanted to understand how to get better at that over time. It's what humans are do through trial and error kind of like selfplay. And so you have like an aspect of like fleet learning that you really want the robot to learn from. And two is you want the robot to get better as it's doing like tasks locally um over time. The thing I keep taking away from more and more is um the the near-term thing we're seeing that's been just absolutely astounding is we've been able to take one model, put all data into it and see all tasks get better. And you know we like like basically like really strong transfer and that's um that's like really important here for general purposeness. We really want the robots to do a vast amount of things and we want the we want the fleet to continue to learn from it. The good news is like um I don't know if you have kids but I have like three kids. They all like um they all kind of need to like learn on their own like learn to walk and like learn to do their own thing. You can't like tell them how to do it. They have to kind of like learn through like trial and error. That's not how humanoids learn. Like once one robot knows how to do like logistics, that's the same neural networks we can put to every single robot in the fleet and they can all do it. And so you have this weird scaling law here for humanoids where once like one robot knows how to do it, every robot in the fleet, if you have millions millions of robots to that point would be able to really understand how to do that task is going to make scaling just absolutely insane once we kind of figure out how to like uh like really run this flywheel of data acquisition flywheel and loop and training loop. uh really quick. Uh it's it's going to be able to like robots are going to wake up every day and and know how to do new tasks in the world. >> Could one argue that because you're generating the data to learn from? I would say it's synthetic data in a manner will never compare with data in the text form or you know data I can scrape off the web. It has significantly more data points if I were to teach a model on language versus here the robot doing something and learning from it. >> Are you trying to make the point that like learning from like text? Basically, you're saying like text is so much more dense than like >> maybe like Yeah. You know, I think they all serve like a little bit different purposes. There's a lot more data out in the physical world than there is in the internet. We've kind of like um we've like tapped out all the kind of tokens on the internet at this point. So, um, we think like being able to explore the physical world is like extremely important for like overall intelligence. Um, there's like, you know, there's a thought process here we can go through of like if if we're actually not able to like change our environment a bit as humans, like can you really achieve like real real intelligence? Um, and uh, so we think we think like touching the world and interacting with the world is like extremely important on the path to like artificial super intelligence for humanity. And it's like a it's it's a very large data set uh that we need to go out and collect. Um I think the as it relates to the the like text pre-training that we've seen in the world that I think that's going to be extremely important for semantic reasoning and almost like this like like like langu like like language condition bridge into the human world. Uh we're able now to talk to the robot and say I I was I was in the lab last week. We're we're just like, you know, we're collecting data from humans navigating different types of apartments and homes. We're taking that we're training like a navigation model, basically a model that we can tell the robot, walk to this place in this apartment. And um was in the lab and I basically asked the robot to walk to the oven and there was a table and stuff and chairs in the way. And I just like, you know, told it it walked all the way around the chairs, walked to the oven. It was perfect. And then I went I went to the back and grabbed like a a very large ladder. It was like this big orange ladder. and I I put it inside the apartment and I positioned the robot away from it behind a table and asked the robot to navigate to the the ladder and this ladder is like fully out of distribution. It's never seen a ladder before in its whole life. But like you know like a like a textbased LM or VLM has seen a ladder you know you could ask like you could ask like a like a like a like a a language bot like hey is this a ladder or not? They be like that's a ladder. It's an orange ladder. So like the semantic reason is there but the robot has like the LLM has like no idea how to tell the body and joints how to move to to approach the ladder and get there. And um I watched the robot at that point just like walk fully to the ladder which was like really incredible. I think there's like a natural part of the [clears throat] this this this part for us of going to sol rob robotics that like the semantic reasoning we're getting from like pre-trained language models is is is like um vital to basically being able to pull this off. And I think there's another piece which is like how do we actually interact and touch the world which I think is another piece of like of raw intelligence that's needed for humanity. And I think the the goal for us is to be able to kind of bridge those two worlds and uh basically build the right world model so the robot can like navigate the world effectively in the physical world which is like much more higher dimensional than the than the internet or text. >> And you spoke about kids Brett. Would you leave your kids with your humanoid? And also this whole companion concept, how important is it that the robot doesn't look menacing or does not look scary? Does the robot of tomorrow have does your humanoid of tomorrow have facial expressions and stuff like that? Um, so actually I've had a robot in my house now for like a few months and um, you know, my my kids have been there, but we like we monitor the robot. So we're not like we're not like uh we're like we have somebody with the robot like we're not letting the kids go up and hug it. We're like we're just doing tasks. We're trying to understand real robot performance. True safety for me is like having a robot that I've we've designed in my home with my kids. We have young kids and like fully autonomously and we're not we're not there today. Like I would not let my like robot roam free for hours and weeks right now with my young kids. There's a there's a certain track record of safety and performance that we like I would want to see internally before like doing that. I think that's just like a really high watermark for me uh of trying to get there and we're pushing like every day to try to achieve this. Um and then I think like you you touched on a few things on the design side. It's funny like it's almost like does this like end at Westworld is what you're trying to ask like maybe like um and it certainly seems possible to go build this like you've seen like I've seen like um robots with like you know real like humanlike faces and expressions and um like really good I would say um our view right now is that we are trying to go out and do useful work. We're not trying to fool another human that we're a human from like a entertainment perspective or maybe companion perspective. Uh so we've not designed the robot with like facial expressions and like uh facial features and things like this. We've designed the robot to be like basically a tool for humanity. Um there's another question is like do we approach Westworld or not which I think is um I don't know I like in some way I'm like really inspired and want to try to push there but we're also like on a little different track here at Figure today. I think we definitely don't want to like design a robot that is like uh scary or aggressive or any way, but we also don't want to like try to like put like googly eyes on it and make it and fool you that it's like a kid toy and it's not. And um if you go back and look at the early Whimos, it was like had the big googly eyes and I I just like I um I quite despise that like design language. It's almost like um this is a very complex and sophisticated technology and you're trying to put like googly eyes on it to fool everybody that it's like it's like a it's a toy. So I think our approach is >> have you seen those toys like Moxy and stuff like that which >> those are small those are small things. I mean, our our robot's like >> like uh over 5 foot. It's like, you know, over 100 pounds. Like, it's like it's uh it's a real thing. And I I think if we were to start putting like googly eyes on it and like bright colors and stuff and make it feel like a toy, I think it would do a disservice to uh you know, our customers in the world. I think this is we need to we need to purchase like a a very high-end technology uh which it is and uh we want to market it, we want to design for that. We don't want to make it scary, but we don't also don't want to make it feel like it's a, you know, it's it's not a kids toy. So, I think we're trying to figure out how to like like basically marry that design language here internally. It's it's tough. We're getting better at it. As you're seeing the robots behind me, like it's radically changing. Like the robot over here is like made of all metal and silver and uh wires hanging out. This is figure two here. Um and then over here is figure three. So, like, you know, we're seeing like radical advancements in the design uh like industrial design for figure robots. I think I think that will continue. I think you'll see us approaching what we think is our ideal design state. Um so we we'll see. We're also in the early endings of figuring out what user feedback looks like and where to go. So we don't have like all the answers for this. Uh so it's like you know I guess question for you. Do we do we approach Westworld or do we stay on the current track? What's your view? >> I think Westworld. >> Okay. Westworld. Cool. >> Yeah. Cuz why not, right? I think >> Why not? Yeah, let's do it. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Somebody will do it. >> Yeah, that'll for sure happen. Um it's possible which I think that would be pretty crazy. We um I think if you put like a I think even our robots now if you put like a wig on it and put a jacket on it and it was like standing like you know with with the back to you. I think you would sometimes maybe like say is that a human or not? So um because it's walking around and doing it's grabbing like you know water or coffee at the office or things like that. You'd be like um so I think there's no reason that we couldn't approach Westworld. >> I'm sure there's no reason why we couldn't my we couldn't put my face or your face on it either at some point. We're already doing my voice. Like I can like talk to the robot and say go to the breath voice and then it goes to the breath voice and talks to me with my voice. It's uh >> it's a crazy thought. Imagine losing someone close to you, say a parent or something like that and creating a robot which looks just like him, speaks like him and has his memories which are in this particular robot programmed in that that seems like Westworld plus. It's just starting, you know, we're like we're like we're a few years into it now. And I think over the next 10 or 20 years, it's just going to be um it's going to be a sci-fi future, which is gonna be really fun. >> So Brett, I I speak to a few AI people in the valley, like a lot of the really popular ones. Do you think a lot of them are speaking about dystopia or a dystopian world in a manner to create regulation so they have a regulatory mode in place so other people can't compete so easily? >> Do you think they're talking dystopian a lot right now? Is that your view? >> I would say it's divided half I would say 60% dystopian 40% utopian. But I sometimes question if the dystopian narrative is beneficial to them if a regulation were to come out and not have many others compete with the incumbent leaders. >> I think it's a little hard. I think my like inner circle of folks that I spend time with in the office and things are so highly optimistic on the future of what this can do. Like too much pessimism is a little bit of a poison. So we have like an aggressive optimism here at the office and a value for at the company. We like my whole inner circle of like folks that I spend my time with even outside of the company and stuff are just so optimistic on like a positive future that we want to live in. I think it's the first step is just trying to think about like what is that positive future and trying to approach that. Like I don't have any interest of spending like most of my material life on a company that's going to ultimately help it be worse. Uh that would make any sense. So I I think I think this is all headed to like a really good spot. I think there's obviously some chance like these things could go bad which is always the case in all technology and things that we're doing in the world. I think that probability is non zero. I think we got to be very very thoughtful about making sure we don't approach that or if we are approaching it like safeguards in place and also then uh painting the picture of what like a positive future for humanity will look like and approach that like you know asatomically approach that as fast as possible. So for me like I don't know humanoid robots for me we look at this we're like this is going to be incredible. We don't want to do, you know, we want to like help the world in so many ways. And it's gonna be like who wants to do dishes? I and do like I I woke up this morning and was like helping to put away dishes in the dish. I was like because my kids were eating like breakfast like I don't want to do that anymore. It's terrible. And um I don't think anybody really wants to do that kind of stuff. So I think that stuff is going to be really critical. I think the AI systems that we're seeing today and like advanced reasoning models and are going to be like extremely beneficial for the world. Uh net net net positive and um I don't know. I'm rooting for that for that future. So, I'm heading down like that track, but I certainly understand uh there's a there's a good amount of folks sitting sitting there just like I would say scared and maybe rooting against that. >> Brett, you didn't cover eyesight. I I I tried to read up about eyesight and I watched a bunch of people talk about it, but I couldn't understand it. How does eyesight work? >> Yeah. So, we basically it's super simple. Our input to the model is like the the robot eyesight. Um what what the user is prompting or speaking and then the joint states like where the joints are like where the robots's at in in time. So like if you take like a sliver of time stamp, you'll get a you'll get a you'll get an image which is coming from a video frame. you'll get the the prompts like what's the prompt like go do dishes or whatever walk to the ladder and this case I said before uh and then what's this current state of the robot like that's the input state >> and then the output is basically like uh the action space of the robot is uh sending out uh targeted commands uh for for in joints like where where do I position my body to go do and that's running like really that loop is running really fast so the robot just like literally sees what the human see like from the head >> for for me to understand in a simpler manner. You're not saying it's like a Whimo, which is more radar and LAR, but like a te Tesla self-driving car, which is more cameras. >> Yeah, exactly. So, we almost like if you think if you put like a VR headset on and you can like see the world through a headset, that's what the robot sees. And like very very similar. We have like two cameras on the face and they just like point out and they're going to see it. We um in our launch video for Figure Three, we have like when we started doing the laundry, when it grabs one of the pods, it's it's actually the video coming from the robot head and it's just like it looks like you put a camera like a GoPro on somebody's head and they're like they're moving around the world. That's what the robot sees. And so it just sees like you know kind of like sees uh egocentric video uh similar if you had a GoPro in your head. It hands it has a prompt of what to do. has a goal in mind like a behavior and then it knows its state and then it sees what it needs to do. So in a lot of ways it's like visual servoing it scale. If it needs to grab the cup it sees a cup needs to grab the cup as a command. It knows its state where my hand positions at head, torso, body and then it sees its hand as released to the to the cup and it just needs like you know it needs to approach this and it's almost like building like a closed loop planner on how to go do that. That's what the neural net's doing. It's outputting commands of where to position the body to go achieve this target. And it's doing this over like you know thousands and thousands of demonstrations of humans of you know doing this doing this exact work or similar work and then we're we're using that for training. So um our training set is like human data. So we use humans for navigation and manipulation. We're like um you know humans are wearing uh we have humans like basically doing this work. We're recording this information and we're training Helix which is our neural network internally to be able to do this on the robot. >> What has changed Brett? Like maybe a year or so ago I had Yan Lakun who's one of you know he he worked on the initial AI projects and is quite a authority on it. He came and explained to me how a transformer was created uh how the a how the generative AI models came about. I'm I'm quite an idiot and I couldn't understand all of it. But what has changed in the world that is allowing for a humanoid to be built today that could not have been done 5 years ago? Well, one is like deep learning just works. And I think that's extremely important part of this. You're able to take very complex things like a complex robot with high degrees of freedom we talked about earlier. We're able to output actions out of it using deep learning models. That's a that's a thing that like didn't exist five years ago to really make happen. Didn't exist the right way for us to make happen. Uh but also like the hardware like we have like really good inference compute and training compute now to really make this really happen. People don't talk about this a lot but the hardware has really gotten good. Um if you go back and like watch like old, you know, humanoids like 10 years ago, a lot of them were hydraulic systems. They weren't even electric. They were like leaking oils. They're extremely dangerous on humans. Uh they're very big and bulky, sometimes loud. >> Yeah. Yeah. I was I was watching this Boston uh Dynamics founder speak about how he still loves hydraulics because of how much power output he's able to get out of. >> Yes. Yes. You like you weren't able to get enough power out of these systems 10 years ago. Uh the power density torque density wasn't really high enough. So you had to choose some other technology which was hydraulic system at the time. We've now had torque density and power density of actuators and battery systems get good enough where you can run like fully electric systems instead of hydraulic systems. And that makes the robot smaller, lighter weight, quieter, faster. Uh like it can run the run times longer. It's just like a better it's like the it's where you want to go when you go into market. You you don't want to bring to market a hydraulic system. There's also like local sensors on on the robot cameras, torque sensing, other things that like we've spent a lot of time on like they were kind of some of these were like do or die projects internally last 3 years that we've advanced internally ourselves that we think are probably state-of-the-art. like nobody else in the world has done systems like this that has allowed us to to run neural nets on the back end. So I think like I think hardware is one. So like electric hardware I would say specifically and then I would say the deep learning and algorithms and compute around there have been fundamental breakthroughs that weren't possible 10 years ago >> in a way. Would you also say the big change has been a humanoid can today leverage prior knowledge in a manner that it could not? >> 100%. Like it has semantic grounding. Uh it has memory. Uh it has like a language condition so humans can tell it like to do something like grab the coffee cup on the table, put it down. It knows exactly what that really means like from a human. Doesn't need like a translator to the robot world. It automatically understands that. nose is the coffee cup that I talked about from from like a language like a language prompt or a voice prompt. So, um all of that you stitch it all together like wow it looks like it's possible now to make this happen. And it looks like general robotics is like actually possible today, you know, not yet working 10 hours a day in my home, but it does work in my home in some cases for like these like individual stuff. It's hardest. Like we can do laundry. Like if you think about the things you would need to see to make general purpose robots work, the hardest thing in that book is doing like high rate manipulation of deformable objects like like laundry, towels, like things like this, like folding a towel for instance that like constantly moves. You grab it. It's not like um it's not rigid. is it's just like a really hard problem to solve. It could be like an unlimited amount of variations a towel can be in. We have neural networks that can do that now. And that that for me felt like the last chapter of the book. It's like we can fold towels that neural nanom humanoid that we have solved in robotics. The the screwed up thing is that we've actually already solved we already know how to do that. We can fold laundry and there's other things in the ecosystem that we're working on now to get that working fully end to end. So it's like it can work for hours like that without any human intervention. Some of these chapters now the book are filling out, some are left open now and we're just like we're trying to fill the whole whole book out in in in some way. But like the the stuff that you would have asked me 3 years ago if we were doing this podcast when we first started, I would have said like here's all the laundry I need to go fold and we can do that. I'd be like we've solved general robotics like we're there. So in some aspect uh we've like solved some hard parts but we still have a lot like a lot more to go. But we we see it now. We see like a little light in the tunnel to go do this. And what comes out of that tunnel is like a robot I can put in your home that can do 10 hours or 20 hours of work a day and do the things you don't want to do all day long. >> What's happening with the others in your industry, Brad? Like I've looked at physical intelligence. They seem more like they're building the software more than the hardware. Neogama, Boston Dynamics, Tesla. Who's doing what, which is very cool. I'm going to play the video of your robot doing the segregation of the packages, but what are the others doing, which is quite cool? I don't know. It's kind of been interesting. I feel like some of the older generation of robotics companies in the space the last like 3 years have have um in some way kind of collapsed. Groups I've like, you know, 10 years ago I would watch and and look up to I think have just like have kind of like somewhat faded away. I think it's been this emergence of like new new companies now in the space that are like I think that are quite interesting overall. The the thing that's been most interesting for me is like everybody's trying to make some sort of bet. There's a lot of like you know in like China you're seeing like a lot of just hardware only bets like they're they're just building hardware. They're selling it. Uh they're generally not working on hands. They're generally not working on AI systems that much but they're not there's there's no like full stack solution. It's like here's like you know you can go to Unitry and buy a robot hardware today. It's like go go go buy it and then you it's up to you to go make it work. It's like there's not much you can really do with it today. And then on the opposite side, there's folks that are just working on pure AI, like no hardware. And you mentioned some of these here that like don't care about the hardware, care about the AI systems. In our mind, you really can't choose one or the other. You have to just like you have to go down a road where you you do the hardware, you do it incredibly well. Um you do the AI, you also do it incredibly well. And then you put it all together really well. like the companies that can do really well are are going to do both really well and what they're going to output is a robot that can do useful work like autonomously like what you want to see is um a demonstration of a robot doing something that's like not teleyop or um like coded and what you're seeing now in the world is like I would say most major competitor to us at this point are putting out most of their content and updates teleopt from a human and I think it's like perhaps some of the most deceiving things I've ever seen It's like uh if I was driving a self-driving car, if a self-driving car pulled up next to us and we found out there was some guy from Tennessee driving it, we'd both be like, "That's uh that's not what I thought this would look like." >> Can I push you a bit on Elon? The way to review Tesla's stock as a multiple of earning to the price the stock trades at. Suddenly, the humanoid is starting to form a part of how one would evaluate the stock. What are they trying to build? >> I don't know what they're trying to build. They're building a humanoid. I don't um know anything more than you know what's public. Um like internally here, we kind of like put like little bit of horse blinders on in terms of like our focus to what we're doing. Um you know, we're kind of reasoning from the from the ground up of like what we should really do. We don't really pay too much attention to like what the competitors are doing. I think that would have been I think that would have ended uh pretty badly last three years if we did. I think like for instance like a lot of groups in the space don't work on like highdimensional hands and we made a big bet internally like we're going to go all in on hands make them over time they'll be complex and they'll be extremely important for high high dextrous manipulation Tesla should be really great at this like uh so I'm rooting for them to do well >> right what do you suspect will be the first problem a humanoid figure three will solve or figure four five or whatever first real world problem. >> Since April, we've had Figure 2 in our first commercial customer working every day uh every workday at the client for 10 hours a day. It's it's doing a real task uh like on on the real production line helping to help build cars. This is not like a high volume. So, we're like we're but but but the point is like we're learning how to operationalize robots. We're learning how to get robots to run every single day. Like how does it work autonomously? Is there any human interventions? Is there hardware failures? Like are there software failures? Like how do we make it better going forward? And I we've got now like close to 6 months of like real world data. We think maybe the one of the first in the world to have done this of a robot running every single day in the in the commercial workforce in like really tough environments. It's not like it's easy. That's been good. I think for figure 3, we're making a much bigger push now into the home than ever before. So um we think the home >> I thought you were focusing on factories and auto plants and stuff like that and companies like Neoama were focusing more on the home. >> We've made a big big push uh starting last 6 months into the home here and we're making an even larger push on figure 3 into the home. Figure three. >> You think that'll happen first? Home because a factory will not probably need the humanoid form factor cuz the factory can be >> rebuilt or remodeled >> to support >> I don't believe that thesis. No. Like you go into the factories, they don't you could rebuild a factory from scratch green field and then you'd still have tough time removing all the humans. It's like uh you see you see some of the most automated manufacturing and logistics companies in the world and they're like they're heavy human. They're heavy human. I think here to build like millions of robots in the world. Our view is that the humanoid is is the right path to go make that really happen. Uh listen, I think three years ago you would like we're on this call. Three years ago, I would have said like the the home is um such a harder problem in the commercial workforce because it's much more variable. Like both of our homes will be different. But going to another home, it'll be different. Like different toasters, different appliances, everything. So, so you need like real common sense reasoning in the home that you might not necessarily need to ship into like say a manufacturing logistics company day one. We we've like um so our view is like shipping into the commercial workforce buyer buy our time to solve the home. Our my view on this is completely flipped last year. I think the home is near-term. I think a home is solvable. Um I think we're basically data bound at this point. So, we launched a program two weeks ago called Project Go Big, and we're trying to go build the largest kind of like internet scale pre-training set for robotics in the world. We're trying to build basic data to teach the robot how to do things uh across various tasks in the home. Every week now, we're collecting data in different new homes and apartment buildings here in the US, and we're using that for training Helix. I think we this next 12 months I think we'll probably build the biggest robot pre-training set in the world to go make this happen. Um it's like LLMs in some way. We're just we're just data bound and then the more data we're seeing the better the models are getting. So in in our you know in our side we really can't scrape the internet for robot data like LLMs can. We have to go generate it. And the good news is a humanoid is like like a human. So we can like capture this from human data. Uh we've already been in my home last like two to three months uh in like alpha testing. Um we've we've we've showed some of the results last week of like what robots can do in homes with like you know in those cases those tasks are all done through Helix. You know we will do more of that over the next 12 months and we will also spend time shipping robots commercially. We think it's nice to get outdoors and get robots out to the real world that's really messy and learn how the robots are behave. It's in a huge huge benefit for us. >> Whenever I speak to people in the US, uh I've been spending a fair amount of time there this year. Everybody talks about China is so far ahead in robotics. Why is that? Is that manufacturing at scale? What are they doing that others can pick up on? >> Yeah, I just don't believe this. There's a lot of chatter like about this constantly. Like I look at like kind of manufacturing 2.0 0 and robotics 2.0. I I'm interested in like the new generation of manufacturing, the new generation of robotics going out. And when you start looking at that space, the US and particularly figure is ahead of every single Chinese system like company I've I've seen globally of what I know publicly in terms of capabilities like watch the robot do advanced things with neural nets autonomously over long horizons. And the answer is like there's really nobody else in the world even close to what we're doing there. Um there is a ton of manufacturing capacity in China but the problems right now are not solving manufacturing and this problem solved. The problem right now is solving a general purpose humanoid robot. Once you solve that then it becomes a data and manufacturing constraint. But we are in a race to solve general purpose robots. We are not in a race against China and manufacturing robots right now. And it doesn't matter if China makes a million humanoid robots tomorrow. They just don't work very well [laughter] to be frank. And um maybe they will in the future, but what I've seen today is they're they're very far from even where we're at figure. And I know the work they need to go do to get to where we're at. And I know the work we need to go do to do general purpose work. It's not going to happen tomorrow. It's not going to happen next month. There's a there's a large like 14 peaks we have to go climb to go get there. So then then once we transition from there, we then go have to make a lot of robots um and and get good at manufacturing. What the manufacturing looks like here looks like consumer electronics manufacturing. And I think when people think about manufacturing get scared of it, they get scared at automotive manufacturing. Automotive manufacturing is [clears throat] uh like the most complex systems I've ever seen in my entire life all put together to manufacture cars. It's it's like hundreds of times harder than manufacturing consum like we manufacture consum a lot by hand in the world and we ship billion phones whatever it is and it making cars is extremely tough. Making humanoids is not a car. It's a consumer electronics. You can hold every partner hand. You could theoretically build millions of these by hand. Uh we won't but you can. So the constraint for me is not like if we were sitting here today and trying to invent the next like AI device or next phone like small phone. We wouldn't say like well the hard part is going to be making a lot of them. We would say getting the AI systems and the hardware designed and you know engineered and prototype. It's probably the harder parts. Making them is like you know we don't sit here and say like you're going to die [clears throat] making like consumer electronics products. Like everybody's going to be able to make it. I think humano is a similar way. I think you can manufacture these. We're doing them now. I think I think manufacturing is hard but less hard than automotive and I do not think it's whoever has the most manufacturing capacity wins this game right now. I think it's whoever has the best general purposeness and that's just at the hardware design layer and the AI layer and the overall integration of those systems to do useful work. So right now America's winning this I think globally. Um our goal is to beat China at this. We're working seven days a week here to go do that. Um, and like you know, at the end of the day, I'm like prohuman, so I hope like wherever happens, like we um, we go out and like build incredible things for humanity and make it really work. But I think it's been a mischaracterization that like, oh, China's got this capacity. Oh, China's got this head start and it's hard to keep up. That's completely wrong in my mind. >> I read somewhere that you decided to move away from the incumbent hyperscalers, the models like you had a partnership with OpenAI which stopped in 2025. Why is that? >> The short answer is we like we open a I led my series B. We we generally were working on some kind of advanced models with them for maybe a year or two years year or so about a year and um figure ultimately chose to kind of uh leave them and go in our own direction. The the summary is that we were just way better at this stuff internally. We were good at getting models designed and and embedded on the system and running on robot and working. We were just really good at it and I think we've been good at it and we viewed the the right path was just be able to do it ourselves. Most of the advancements we made during that period of time were all done internally. Um and we just felt the better path for us internally would would be to design a system or AI systems ourselves which which we've been doing basically since the start. It also became difficult for us like even you know we have a really large AI team here and they're like some of the best AI robotics uh folks in the world. It also became hard like hiring people when we had a partnership like that where folks felt like we were outsourcing our AI which we weren't doing and we were actually doing all of it mostly ourselves internally and just like for many reasons it became like this is not the right path for for us to go down. The path for figure is to go alone and do an extremely good job uh bringing it here internally and understanding the models really well down to the substrate levels and then be able to put it on embedded systems and make it really work. And it's it's not just like sitting in a room like training models and like throwing it over the over a fence and making it really work. It's it's you got to really it's this is hardware. You got to be able to sit there with the robot and get it to work. And that that is just like a uh it's a lot of trial and error. It's a lot of evaluations. Um, it's a lot of hard work, but at the end [clears throat] of the day, the buck stops with being on robot and making that stuff work. And the team here is just the best in the world at being able to do this. They I mean, they're from from deep mind at like some of the best places in AI and they're they're sitting here with the robots. They're sitting here with a GPU cluster and training models and we're doing that daily now and evaluating whether it looks well like really good. I I I sit here and watch us do generally anywhere between like five and 20 evaluations of new models every single day. And like we've been doing that now for a year and a half, two years. Like every day we're testing new things and trying to a hill climb. That that's kind of led to the results you've seen today. And then what you haven't seen is like the next generation of results that we're working on in here internally. And um I I just can't wait to show those as well. >> Brett, so my primary job is that of a investor, stock market investor, public market investor. When I look at the world of AI, if I were to extrapolate and say world output is about a 100red trillion and let's say half of that comes from services of one kind or another. So say 50 trillion in services for the amount of money that has gone into AI, we haven't seen the revenue from AI commensurate with that. When does that change and how does that trickle down into humanoids? Will it be the same or similar for many years? >> I mean my my view is this will take some time but like AI systems will just eat everything [laughter] software ate the world prior to this and AI will eat software in the rest of the world and it it'll it'll take some time. It's hard to kind of take these existing habits and things that are embedded in a society and and radically transform them over like a very short period of time. But over like 5, 10, 15, 20 years, I I think things will radically transform. My my view is that there's going to be a generational company to be built that will be able to put ultimately billions of robots on the planet that will build like the largest company we've ever seen in the world by by a long shot. And it's driven from like the metrics you said like you know I think it's like a little under half of GDP is like human labor. It's not just like getting to the point where like okay you have the biggest market in the world now which is like human labor and you're like you can basically build a human a mechanical human. How many like cheap humans that work 20 hours a day would you want if they're like extremely affordable and and they can do humanlike performance and they're like you know oneten the cost of a human or whatever it would be over time like a limited right as long as I can keep putting more humans like more mechanical humans in and they keep giving me ROI output you'll just keep feeding them into the economy and GDP in in a lot of ways is like a kind of this byproduct of like human productivity and we even measure GDP on a per capita like per human perspective is how we measure GDP So if the denominator there per capita or per human is like per synthetic human or per humanoid I think you have like this unbounded effect to GDP that it's not just like okay the biggest TAM in the world but that that TAM could like grow like by many factors here in the future. So I think um it will take time because we can't just like snap our fingers and like appear we just talked about manufacturing but we can't snap our fingers and make 100 million robots but I think through our lifetime we will be able to build billions of robots and get them out to the world and they will ultimately start building their own robots from themselves. What will emerge on the humanoid side will be the largest company in the world by far and then on the AI side you think AI is just going to eat everything. [laughter] an advice to an investor who is looking at the various AI companies. Let's say OpenAI, Anthropic, Alphabet, all of these big incumbent players in the space. If you had $1 to invest, where would you put it and why? >> Is it private or public or both? >> Either either. >> Personally, I put all my money in my companies. Like I I don't make public investments. I put it all in here. So, I would tell you biasly put them into my companies. [clears throat] But um listen, I'm a big believer in um kind of like growth investing, investing things I really think I believe in. I I'd be at the frontier for me of deep tech. Uh I think it's a >> And which company is that? >> It's just like deep tech would be like I I work in deep tech. I I mean Archer and Cover and Figure my companies that I've started are deep tech companies and they're like at the frontier of like really hard things look possible and if solved I think could be like radically important for a lifetime. But could you pick a company which isn't one of yours like from the ecosystem >> you know like the the new age LLMs I think those will go really far the open AI and anthropics and um I love you know what SpaceX is doing and Tesla I think these groups I think these are like you know I think I you know I'm in the Bay Area so Whimo is a good example like the Whimos are everywhere here it's like one of the best product experience I've ever had >> Whimo would be on my list like these these will be like generational companies uh they're certainly on the back to be like generational industries and then finding the right players inside of those that are like willing to to to play, you know, play hard for a long period of time and win. I think these are like uh areas that I would be like going all in on. I'm spending my life going all in on some of these and I think that's like I always like think it's important to be excited about what you're like say investing or spending your time in. Um so I'm a more believer of like kind of those areas than anything else. don't want to pick one. >> I mean, listen, I would probably pick Whimo uh as my as my pick. I think I you know, I think it's like a 50 billion market cap. Uh super underrated. Like I think if you haven't experienced it in a Whimo, you wouldn't really quite understand. >> I have. I have. I've used it quite a bit in the valley. >> Yeah. What was your experience? >> Incredible. This one particular time, I was at a traffic signal in a Whimo and there was a fire truck coming behind me. And my VHO actually broke the signal, did this maneuver, went to the right, and allowed the truck to pass. It was incredible that a self-driving car could do that. >> The conventional wisdom says this is like not possible. If you go out and like talk to a lot of people, it's like, you know, self-driving is not quite here. And then you like ride away, you're like, oh man, it's been here. It's here right now. And it's unbelievable. And it's going to keep getting better and better. And I I think of that for my kids, too. My kids are young. I don't I don't want them to drive. Driving's too dangerous. I have some close friends that are senior Weimo. Like I think Whimo would be a great I think the market cap is reasonable. I think they've really proven their operational readiness to be able to make it work. I think there's a long ways to go now to scale that out to like a global fleet of like millions of cars. I think the recipe is really there of like how to go do it and the learnings are definitely there. I think the stack will evolve on the sensors and models and stuff over time to be more scalable. And they've I think they've been at it for like 16 years now. So it's like it's like almost like where did this come from? They've there's been people there working for 16 years on this problem. And that's also like I think really uh inspiring to see folks like really playing for the long game and delivering a product that's like super complex. Like they they have the complexity we have, but they don't. But then they have the safety thing of being able to not hit the road unless you know for sure you can make the right decisions at like fast speeds. And you know when we're walking at a, you know, max a meter a second, we don't really have those same safety conditions that a car would have in those cases. So it makes it even harder in terms of complexity that they have than we would have here. So being able to see that level of complexity I think is just astounding. >> So Brett my community is largely Indian origin entrepreneurs across the world who are looking to build something. If I were to extrapolate that humanoids have the biggest use case in societies with say a declining demographic dividend or really high labor cost for countries like India where the cost of labor is still quite low compared to say America for example and if I were to be a bit more candid the access to risk capital is significantly lower here. What do we build? What does my community build in the humanoid space? >> What I can relate to on my side is like I I grew up on a farm, came from very humble beginnings, had uh no to negative money most of my life. And um I think a couple pieces of advice I have just for folks in general is like I have I have a big thesis on just like just going for it. Like I've spent I spent a decent amount of my career as even an entrepreneur like derisking into areas where I felt like are possible. um especially in software that were like um you know like weren't like the really big big ideas and I think with you know Archer and Cover and Figure now and stuff I'm working on these are like these are big ideas and I could really get the go for it. I've learned a lot from that experience. I've learned that a few things. One is I think um when you're going for these big ideas they generally have like bigger markets like bigger TAMs and I think investors like to fund bigger harder things that have like bigger outcomes. They just like like that binary like riskreward. So I think you just access the capital. I think it's generally easier when you're working on harder things that can have bigger outcomes than working on smaller things like a a calendar app or whatever it would look like. Um I think the second thing is people from an employee base that want to work for you. You need to hire like really good people. They want to work for the really hard problems. They also don't want to work for a calendar app. They want to work for like a hard really important problem for the world. Um and then I think like the motivation and dopamine levels of folks that working on these things is also harder. And it's generally not like 10 50 times harder. if you're like we're working on stuff that's probably like multiple times harder, but the reward if it pays off in terms of like is is like is like tens of folds higher. So, one thing I would say is like just try to go for it. And I know that also depends on access to capital and the cost of that and talent and everything else. I I understand that, but like I have a you know my life I just like just just try to go for it. I think that's one. Uh two is um the humanoid space like it needs enormous help. We need help on compute and training. We need help on data collection significantly over time. Um, we need help on components. Like the one thing I've really realized is three years ago, I thought there was a more more of a mature supply chain. We can go out and get motors and cameras and sensors. Like the world has tons of like tens of thousands of different types of motors like and what we found is we've had to like none of them are very good when you bring them in and you start looking at it like the best motor we had or actuator was like twice as big as we needed it to be and twice as heavy. We're like, "Oh man, what are we going to do?" We talked to the vendor. They're like, "This is what we got. if you want to redesign it takes like two years and maybe we'll get it, maybe we won't. Uh, and I was like, oh man, we got we got to go do this ourselves. There's a huge area of supply chain that needs it needs help on. Um, we need help on go to market activities as well over time. Um, you know, I think what's been maybe more challenging with humanoids is that we've had to vertically integrate almost everything now, which also makes it tough for like community folks trying to help out. Um, like you can't build on top of the humanoid similar to what you can build on top of with LLMs today. um and use them like an API. So we are literally designing the full stack. They can go in your home and do everything um down to like the AI models and the middleware operating system, the firmware, the embedded software, all the hardware. So it makes it a little bit more challenging for us to pop up and be like, "Yep, we'll use you." But there are opportunities uh today for this stuff. Um >> and how do we find how do we find these? >> I think one thing I have uh you just got to talk to the right folks in the industry and then you got to start building stuff. You just got to go for it. Like the like one thing I always see for entrepreneurs is they have a hard time like there's a lot of like stiction like a lot of inertia to get started. Just go build some stuff. Like go out there with a little budget. Go build a little website. Go out there and like cold call your way through it. Like you got to get out there and just start trying some stuff. I think this trial and error period is like extremely important. It's like a shark swimming. If like you stop, you die as an entrepreneur. So you need you got to keep just going and you'll need to go do some trial and error. You go talk to everybody in the space. There's a bunch of conferences for humanoids and uh like like embodied AI. Uh you got to get into that network and understand their pain points, understand where like where the business is headed, what things the those companies might need and then you got to start just making inroads into them. And you got to start like building and showing value. Like for us like we have like we have like o over a billion dollars of cash. If there are things and problems in our landscape, we will go fund it and we will bring people in and go solve those. So like um if somebody approached us, hey Brett or Figure, whatever, we've done these things. Here's how we can really help. We we we trial and test those like frequently and see how can that could work. I think it's just a lot of hustle and um if you're out there and you're listening to this, like just just go just like start going, start building. Uh you can do a lot on like a small budget and make some traction and that's how this all starts. And then you learn a lot from there and then you ask a bunch of questions, you get feedback and you keep going and make that recursively better. >> I'm going to digress and ask you a question. I've been exploring the idea of building a social media app out of India because I think the incumbent players in social media have gotten boring for the lack of a better word. Any advice on what I could build around social media? I feel like I still don't have a platform that I really love even here. Um I feel like there's like certain aspects I can go to certain places. I can go to like LinkedIn and do some stuff professionally. You got Instagram, you got X. Like I think they all have like very different um experiences and ways to deliver content. And I feel like the world really hasn't figured out what the right platform is there yet. Um, I think there's something to probably do with like an AI native like social networking platform that could be like like I think really important and I don't quite live in that world to understand that well enough. But I think there's I I would I would start with an AI first native experience and I think there's a there there are some gaps in what certain platforms are able to deliver today and also what the kind kind of content I want to consume and give out that I think um I think they can give rise to a new experience for folks. And I think I think we also need it like we're like >> I'm burnt out like I don't use Facebook. I don't really you know in LinkedIn it's [clears throat] just like don't use these things. I just we need we need something new and fresh. And there's a there's a there's a way to do that. There's a way to get like the multi- modality of maybe what I get across some of these other platforms into one experience. >> Any advice on who I should hire for something like this? Brett, >> I've always um I think my con like the conventional wisdom of everything is to go out and hire somebody like really experienced that makes you feel really good from a really good background that's at a successful company. And I found like that playbook is just complete crap. Like throw that right out the door. And like uh even now like figures got into a point where like we have these big shots like knocking on our door wanting to come work here now and they're like big companies whatever else and it's just like not the right like if you look at every like generational company it's not like they went out and picked out like the VP here and the VP here and the VP here and put them together. It's like the opposite of what Meta like Meta is doing that right now right look at their uh Meta super intelligence lab. It's like you're putting like 15 Tom Bradies together and making that work. It's going to it's just immediately going to it's going to immediately collapse. Like it's not going to work. And I think um my view is you just need to find the core axiom of what I look for here for talent is people that really care. And I can't I can't find any better way to describe it than caring. They care a lot about whatever you know you're trying to hire somebody to do this. They obviously have the technical background to go do it. But even if you don't quite have the perfect technical background, if you have like a high aperture for learning, you're going to go out and figure out how to do that. You're going to learn to code or learn to vibe code or whatever whatever you need to go do. So I I have a big thesis on trying to find folks early stage that really care and that for me it means like a lot of shot on goals means like getting myself out there talking about what I'm doing and trying to find like this big net cast this wide net of folks that want to come in here and work with me on this like really important project or whatever it is and I think for you here it's like uh finding folks that would really care about this problem of trying to [clears throat] build this like next generation social networking app in India that's like native AI first and I think the first step is like casting a wide net telling everybody you're doing it. I don't think there's really any secrets in tech. I think people like hold those close to your chest or they used to. I used to and it just doesn't matter anymore. Like a lot of it's on just raw execution and ability to deliver product that really works well and most people can't execute and most people can't deliver good product. So there really are no secrets. So um my view is to try to find somebody that deeply cares. >> Do you think it could be voice first? >> I'm like extremely bullish on voice models. I I'm doing work on some of this work right now and I think for both like the digital AI front like it's funny like we're doing like the physical AI thing I figure where like we're trying to do everything a human can in the physical world and like you know I've also been working on uh something that is also helping out with the digital side of this and all roads lead to full autonomy of AI agents whether it's like through a robot or through like a digital systems and the the UI to that in my mind is is is voice like really good voice and and we just don't have like really good voice today, but it's it's getting better. Like the line's like getting better over time and it's it's like the gap's like narrowing of where we need to go. I think we're like 12 months away from like really good voice that can make an experience like you're talking about work. But we need it. And if not, you don't have like a high tolerance for like a voice that you can't interrupt or make some mistakes like you just like it's just not a it's a it's immediately a bad experience. But I think for your thing, we're like I think we're it's a 2026 event for you of getting voices voice like voice models like native AI like probably half duplex models like extremely good. I think there could be a very significant voice aspect of this. And I also think about voice and generative AI like rendering as a as a real differentiator to what's really happening today and like kind of like 1.0 social social uh social media networks. I would be starting to play around with a couple different of these avenues and starting to prototype them within a week. I would want to see if you can use an off-the-shelf TTS for voice. Uh start hooking up like a a mock network together and start basically parallel pathing a couple of these like user journeys of what this could look like. And I would say it'd be nice if you could check in with me in a week and we could like start demoing these and checking and testing them out. The only way through this for you is like to be able to rapidly prototype very different type of ideas and feel the experience of what that looks like and trying to close the gap on what you think that experience should should look like. >> Yeah. I'm going to hit you up after this and seek some help on this. >> I want to be your first user so I get like a really great user and I can always say I was the first user on your platform. [laughter] >> No, I'd love that. Last question for you, Brett. Beyond this utopian future when the humanoids are doing most of what humans can do today from a work lens or from even a home lens what happens to the world what happens to socialism what happens to capitalism what happens to labor what happens to a job and getting a salary >> I think there's a few things that happen one is we are building autonomous I feel like autonomous agents like synthetic humans whether digitally or physically they will do everything behind a computer a human can and they will also do everything in the physical world through a humanoid that you would want to go do. If if that's true, which I think is very high likelihood in the future, the prices of goods and services are will slowly start collapsing basically atomically approaching zero. Yeah, you'll just have like an abundance of goods and services. Like if you had like a robot farmer like all it would need is like the price of the land and then energy and if energy generated on site with solar and stationary battery then you basically have like the rental cost of the robot and land and it just be like it like that would be the only real costs and I think the robot cost will like really dramatically reduce. You'll have this dramatic reduction here over the next like five years as we approach higher volume manufacturing and then you'll have another step down once robots can fully build robots in the loop together and you remove all human labor from the whole manufacturing process. So I think you have that period of time that happens. I think that'll you'll be able to afford anything anything you need in the world that humans can do today. You'll have synthetic you know agents that will be out there to do that for you. >> What happens then? I think there's a part of society that lacks purpose for what they do. Like myself, like what do I do if like synthetic human can do everything I can do just as good? I I spend my whole life career doing stuff that I think is valuable that I, you know, like a computer can do just as well. Uh and then there's another aspect of us like freeing us up from all the stuff we do all day. Like we have, you know, we work 40, 50, 60 years of our life. [clears throat] We work at home all day long doing laundry and dish. I I feel like I'm cleaning up the kids toys like con constantly like just like like you know just like I feel like I'm working well I'm I want to spend time with my kids but I'm like kids are getting breakfast and I'm like feeding getting them breakfast or getting stuff out of the dishwasher. I don't want to be doing that. I don't want to be talking to them. You know I'm driving them to school. Like I just like I can't I have to focus on the street. You know what I mean? Like there's just like all this stuff we're doing that we're not really realizing is just like and then I'm holding all these things in my head and planning like how to book something or go travel or send a wire. Like I just want systems to go all into this for us. I think it's quite freeing. I think when one one aspect we lose purpose, another aspect is extremely freeing and another aspect it's like you'll be able to afford anything in the world. And the funny thing is like the weird thing is we're going to see that this in our lifetime now. I grew up on a farm, right? Like it's just we're seeing things advance like you know my my grandfather didn't grow up around electricity in the early years. Like it's just like we're seeing things advance radically. I think it's going to be a net net great. Uh it's just going to be radically different 20 years from now. One could argue that humans didn't have purpose to begin with. We just deceived ourselves into thinking we had purpose. >> 100%. I mean, is it purpose like working like 18 hours a day every single day? You know what I mean? These are the things I I don't know. I mean, it's really I happen to like love what I do. So, I feel like I have purpose or uh and hope it hope it's hope it's purposeful at some point in line like over time. >> Do you love what you do or do you like the byproduct of what you do? I love the byproduct of what I do, which helps me get dopamine and a feeling for like what I do every day in the office. So, I really love being able to ship great product out. Nothing makes me happier to see a robot working for five months on out in the real world. That's awesome. It's like it's like but I need I need I want millions of that. You know what I mean? So, but my days are hard. My days like all the I I have like this um problem funnel like every problem funnels right to me and I'm working on problems all day. I have this like joke when I'm telling people when I get to meet them like tell me good news. I've had a bad day and it's just like they they never have good news because like things that are going well I don't spend time on. So, but I'm working on problem fixing things. I'm doing things at a CEO level that are needed to unblock the critical path for the company. So, I just work on problems all day. I I work like sun up to sun down. I'm generally in the office every night. Uh so, like no, my days are very hard, exhausting. Uh, I'm tired. And um, no, they're like they're they're extremely difficult and not fun on the surface, but like the the byproduct of this is we get to create general purpose humanoid robots here. [clears throat] >> Is that dopamine from a place of ego where nobody's building humanoids yet and you're the first people doing it, so you get a dopamine hit. Tomorrow, if everybody were building a robot, it might not be the same. Yeah, I think it'd really suck not winning. Um, we want to go build something great. We want to go win. And I think that's really important. Like we don't want to I don't want to lose. Like losing is like is uh terrible. Like we we don't want to make bad decisions. Like there's all this like there's all this like things in the in the ballot so value like failing. It's okay. It's like it's not okay. I don't want to fail. Like I I don't like that way of thinking. like we failed all the time and we make mistakes all the time, but we don't want to make those mistakes. I'd rather not make and not have failed and succeeded. Like so I happen to make better decisions sometimes after I fail, but like that's not the goal. The goal is to go win. Um I would say short term, yeah, it's great. It's great to go win, but like even now like this is a 10, 20, 30 year journey. There is the winner will emerge 10 years from now, 5 years from now. You know what I mean? Like not not now. So like whether we're like one or five or two right now, none of this matters. So like what matters is shipping a product at scale that can generate the data to increase intelligence and reduce cost. That's that's who wins in my mind. Like who's the first through a million robots in market? That's a big marker that will help determine like the leader. So I think that for me like um even though I think we've been successful to date, we don't not feel in any way like we're winning or I've won here. I think we we want to go really win it and that's going to take five t more years of beyond of more extreme like seven a week work that we're doing. So um but we're in it we're in it for the long haul. We started this company knowing it's going to be a multi-deade thing and uh we're we're just fortunate to be here and I think we're most fortunate I'm most fortunate as a founder being here. You know, my advice to entrepreneurs is always like always be within the right decade. And it was unclear when I started this company. I was like, I'm going to go do this for like 20 30 years beyond if like humanoids were going to happen this fast. And it happens to be that it's happening this fast now. And it's a race now to go solve general purpose robots. So I I feel fortunate to be in a place where we have over a billion of cash. We have great commercial customers. Robots are working with neural nets. Figure 3 is I think it's the best human in the world. It's great. We have a great team. Team is like by far and away the best asset we have at the whole company. So, we have all the ingredients now to like pull off what that we started as a dream. And I I think we feel fortunate about that. >> Thank you, Brett. Thank you for doing this. This was fun. I'll uh be down in the valley in November. And I'd love to come check them out in person. >> Come by and like give me a part of the network, social network here early, too. >> Yeah, 100%. We'll connect after this. Thank you, Brett. [music] Cheers. All right. Bye. Bye.